GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
JULY 17 MEETING OF THE ANN
HARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNSEL OUR DISH HERE COUNTS
FOR OUR HEROISM HERE ELSEWHERE
SONG APSA ELSEWHERE WATSON HERE
ELSEWHERE DENHA HERE ELLSBURG
OUTSIDE ONE MURTALA HERE
ELSEWHERE IGHER HERE IS WHERE
YOUR CUSTOMER BRIGG'S HERE IS.
>> WE'RE OUT HERE.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA FABER
POSED THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
JUST BRIEFLY MAYOR THIS
AFTERNOON I REMOVED A MAN FROM
THE AGENDA.
THAT'S THE ITEM HAVING TO DO
WITH THE TRANSACTION OF THREE
FIFTY S FIFTH STREET.
WE SIMPLY DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH
TIME TO ANSWER THE QUESTIONS
THAT WE WERE GETTING.
SO WE'LL BRING THE ITEM BACK
THE SECOND MEETING IN AUGUST.
>> THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO INTRODUCTIONS
TODAY AND SO WE ROLL DIRECTLY
INTO PUBLIC COMMENT, PUBLIC
COMMENT, RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT, RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY THAT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
.
>> OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ALEX LOWE.
ALEX LOZANO'S GO AHEAD.
>> HI.
THIS IS OUTFLOW CALLING IN FROM
SOUTH SOUTHEAST EAST.
ANOTHER BRIEF WORD ON C ONE.
WHILE I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT
THESE PARCELS WILL BE ZONED I
ONE D INSTEAD OF THE RIDICULOUS
I WANT A DISTRICT THAT
ESSENTIALLY ACTS AS A FILTER TO
ALLOW ONLY THE ULTRA WEALTHY TO
LIVE IN AN AREA THAT IS AS THE
CITY WAS STILL PREVENTING
PEOPLE FROM BUILDING DUPLEXES
ON THEIR OWN PROPERTY REALLY
SADDENS ME.
>> IT'S AN INDICATOR THAT AS A
CITY WE STILL AREN'T TAKING
SERIOUSLY THE GOAL OF ALLOWING
ANYONE NOT JUST THE WEALTHY TO
LIVE HERE.
I'M SURE THE MOVE WOULD BE
UNPOPULAR WITH OUR LOCAL
LANDLORDS BUT MOST OF US WHO
LIVE IN THE PRESENT AND DON'T
HAVE A VESTED INTEREST IN
EXACERBATING THE HOUSING CRISIS
WOULD SUPPORT YOU IN MAKING IT
POSSIBLE FOR ALL TO RESIDENTIAL
LOANS TO HAVE DUPLEXES ON THEM
SPEAKING OF THINGS THAT LOCAL
LANDLORDS ARE LIKELY TO OPPOSE
AND EXCITED TO SEE CNN COME
BACK ON THE AGENDA IN AUGUST, I
HOPE THAT WHEN IT DOES IT IT
DOESN'T DO WHAT IS EFFECTIVELY
REMOVING SIX POINT TWO MILLION
DOLLARS FROM THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND AS THAT'S THAT
SEEMS LIKE A BIT OF A NEGATIVE
SIDE EFFECT OF FIRST UP,
FINALLY I WANT TO ADDRESS
SIDEWALK AND BY I THINK GAPS
ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT OF THE
RECENT DEATH OF SOMEONE WHO WHO
WAS RIDING A SCOOTER IN THE
SPACE AVAILABLE TO THEM AND GOT
HIT AND KILLED BY A MOTORIST.
>> WE NEED TO TO MAKE NON
MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION MORE
OF A PRIORITY AT THE CURRENT
RATE OF OF BUILDINGS BIKE LANES
WHEN
THEY'RE GOING TO ACHIEVE A
FULL NETWORK OF ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES BIKE LANES WE NEED TO
ADJUST THAT SPEEDING IT UP AND
WE NEED TO STOP ACCEPTING CAUSE
AS THE AS THE ULTIMATE DEFAULT
ALL THE TIME AND RATHER ALLOW
EVERYONE ON OUR STREETS EQUALLY
THIRTY SECONDS.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NAOMI
FISHER.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS NAOMI ZYGMUNT FISHER
AND I AM THE SECRETARY OF THE
NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD DETROIT
AND MICHIGAN CHAPTER.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THE NLG
AND THE LAWYERS AND LEGAL
WORKERS THROUGHOUT THE STATE
WHO MAKE UP OUR MEMBERSHIP TO
EXPRESS OUR OUTRAGE CONCERNING
THE CONDUCT OF THE ANN ARBOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT LAST
WEDNESDAY, JULY 12TH, THE
VOLUNTEERS OF FED-UP MINISTRIES
AS THEY DO EACH WEEK FEEDING
OUR COMMUNITY FROM THEIR FREE
FOOD TRUCK AT LIBERTY PLAZA.
OFFICERS FROM THE APD USE THIS
OCCASION TO ARREST A CITIZEN
FOR A MINOR CRIME THAT WAS
ALLEGED TO HAVE OCCURRED IN
ANOTHER PLACE AND ANOTHER DAY.
THEIR PROTESTATIONS TO THE
CONTRARY NOTWITHSTANDING THIS
IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THE APD
HAS CARRIED OUT ARRESTS AND
LOCATIONS SET UP TO SERVE THE
HUNGRY AND UNANNOUNCED.
WE URGE THIS COUNCIL TO TAKE
CONCRETE STEPS TO ENSURE THAT
THIS IS THE LAST NO ONE SHOULD
EVER HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
FOOD AND THEIR FREEDOM.
PROSECUTING PETTY THEFT CANNOT
AND MUST NOT BE HELD AS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THE BASIC HUMAN
RIGHT TO SUSTENANCE.
THE GOOD PEOPLE AT FED-UP
MINISTRIES ARE AN IMPORTANT
PART OF THE SAFETY NET THAT
SUPPORTS THE MOST MARGINALIZED
AND UNDERSERVED IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
USING THEIR WORK AS BAIT FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT UNDERMINES
THEIR ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO
SERVE OUR CITIZENS AND IS
FRANKLY GROTESQUE.
WHERE ARE OUR PRIORITIES?
WHAT DO WE VALUE AS A COMMUNITY
?
OUR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS
OF PROPERTY RIGHTS TRULY MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THE HUMAN RIGHTS
OF OUR MOST VALUABLE RESIDENTS,
OUR MOST VULNERABLE RESIDENTS.
IT SHOWS AN UTTER LACK
OF VISION FOR THIS CITY TO
PLACE LAW ENFORCEMENT ABOVE ALL
ELSE.
IN WHAT WAY WAS ANYONE TRULY
PROTECTED OR SERVED BY THE
POLICE LAST WEDNESDAY?
IN WHAT WAY DID ANY OF US
BENEFIT BY MAKING IT MORE
DANGEROUS TO FEED OR BE FED IN
ANN ARBOR FINALLY, LET ME POINT
OUT THAT IF WE SOCIETY AT LARGE
CITIZENS WASHTENAW COUNTY OR
SPECIFICALLY THIS COUNCIL,
WE'RE MEETING OUR OBLIGATIONS
TO ALL OF OUR CITIZENS FED UP
MINISTRIES WOULD NOT NEED TO BE
FEEDING OUR NEIGHBORS AT
LIBERTY PLAZA EACH WEDNESDAY NO
ONE WOULD BE RESORTING TO PETTY
THEFT TO SURVIVE AND THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE REGARDLESS
OF THEIR PRIORITIES WOULD HAVE
HAD NO ONE TO ARREST LAST WEEK.
THE POLICE CAN DO BETTER.
THIS COUNCIL CAN DO BETTER BOTH
IN SUPERVISING THE POLICE AND
IN SERVING EVERYONE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND OUR COMMUNITY CAN
DO BETTER ON BEHALF OF THE
MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL LAWYERS
GUILD, DETROIT MICHIGAN CHAPTER
WE URGE YOU TO DO SO.
>> THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
DAVID COHEN.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M DAVID WILLIAM COHEN, A
NORTH SIDE RESIDENT.
SAY HELLO TO THE HURON RIVER
WATER TRAIL.
YOU WERE INVITED TO KEEP THE
RIVER HEALTHY AND BEAUTIFUL AS
PEOPLE ARE GETTING OUTSIDE IN
RECORD NUMBERS.
THE NEED TO LEAVE NO TRACE
SKILLS AND ETHICS INTO ACTION
IS MORE IMPERATIVE THAN EVER.
I QUOTE THERE FROM A PERMANENT
LEAVE NO TRACE PLAQUE INSTALLED
ADJACENT TO THE AAGOT DELIVERY
OFFICE YESTERDAY THE NEW YORK
TIMES HAD AN OP ED PIECE ABOUT
THE GROWING IMPORTANCE OF RIVER
RECREATION IN OUR TIME
OF GLOBAL WARMING.
IT FOCUSED ON MUNICH'S ESR
RIVER AS GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
SERVING THE NEEDS AND DESIRES
OF THOUSANDS OF URBAN RESIDENTS
AND FARMERS WHO ARE ON RIVER
COULD HAVE BEEN INCLUDED A SITE
OF EXPONENTIAL GROWTH OF HUMAN
ACTIVITY.
THE CENTER BEING THE CASCADES.
I LOVE THE CASCADES, THE SOUND
OF FALLING WATER, THE LOVELY
WALKWAY ON THE BERM THE GRASS
IS ON THE BANKS SUNDERER SUN
EARLY I WATCHED EXPERT KAYAKERS
PRACTICING MANEUVERS RECENTLY I
ENCOUNTERED A YOUNG WOMAN
READING A BOOK AT THE FOOT
OF THE CASCADES AMID DOZENS
OF TUBERS THE CITY SHOULD BE
PROUD OF THE CASCADES AMENITY
IN 1984 AND 2012 CONVERTING A
MURKY HEAD RACE INTO INTO AN
INTENDED KAYAK AND CANOE
PLAYGROUND AS PART OF A COSTLY
PROJECT TO SAVE AAGOT DAM AND
POND.
I APPRECIATE THIS BUT THE
CASCADES PLAN FAILED IN
SIGNIFICANT WAYS.
THREE CASCADES THAT WERE
PLANNED BECAME NINE.
CANOEING WAS CONSIDERED
HAZARDOUS AND CONURES WERE
REDIRECTED TO AN ALTERNATE
PORTAGE NOT FORSEEN TUBING
BECAME NUMBER ONE AND EVER
GROWING NUMBERS WERE BRINGING
THEIR OWN INFLATABLES BYPASSING
THE LIVERY OFFICE SO MANY
PEOPLE, SO MANY PEOPLE FROM A
WIDE REGION SEEKING A BLAST AT
A VERY SMALL SITE OVERWHELMED
THE CASCADES NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
TRAFFIC PARKING ISSUES LITTER
AND DRINKING.
EARLY ON NEIGHBORS BEGAN
SPEAKING UP.
IN 2012, POLICE STEPPED PATROLS
TO DEAL WITH THE CASCADES CHAOS
PARKING STRICT RESTRICTIONS
WERE INTRODUCED AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS SEEM TO BE LISTENING
EVEN JOINING IN WITH US TO
COLLECT TRASH TRASH NEVER THE
LESS THE ISSUES OF THE CASCADES
TRAFFIC HAVE GROWN YEAR BY YEAR
.
I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS CAN THE
CITY BRING A COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH TO THE PROTECTION
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY
AND WELL-BEING WITH THE CITY
EXCEPT THE CHAOS THIS CHAOS AT
OTHER PARKS FACILITIES, GOLF
COURSES, ICE RINKS, SWIMMING
SOFTBALL FIELDS, SPECIAL EVENTS
VENUES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS A FEAST
COLLIMORE
GOOD EVENING, GRETA.
>> THE MAYOR THE CITY COUNCIL
STAFF THE REASON I WANTED TO
COME HERE TONIGHT IS TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE PREPARATION
INITIATIVE WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL IS GETTING READY TO I
GUESS INITIATE A I THINK THAT
BEFORE YOU INITIATE THE
PREPARATION COMMITTEE YOU
SHOULD MEET WITH SOME OF THE
PEOPLE THAT USED TO LIVE HERE.
THERE HAS TO MOVE OUT OF THIS
COMMUNITY.
YOU SHOULD LISTEN TO SOME
OF THE PAIN AND ANGER THEY HAVE
REGARDING, YOU KNOW, HOW
THEY'VE BEEN GENTRIFIED OUT
OF THE COMMUNITY.
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE BORN
HERE.
THEY CANNOT AFFORD TO LIVE HERE
.
YOU KNOW, THOSE ARE THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT I THINK WHEN YOU
LOOK AT IT OPERATION YOU SHOULD
INCLUDE IT IN THE CONVERSATION
BECAUSE THE THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY WE NEED IT.
FOR EXAMPLE, YOU KNOW, WE LOOK
AT CITY HALL AND THE EMPLOYMENT
RATIO HERE.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S VERY FEW
BLACK EMPLOYEES HERE.
IF YOU GO OUT ON THESE
CONSTRUCTION SITES, YOU DON'T
SEE THE BLACK KIND OF JOB THAT
WE USED TO DO YOU KNOW THE HARD
STUFF YOU DON'T SEE THAT AT ALL
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOOD PAYING
JOBS SO PEOPLE REALLY COULD
BENEFIT FROM THAT NOT BEING
ABLE TO BENEFIT.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT YOU SHOULD LOOK
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
ESTABLISHING A RECREATION TASK
FORCE BECAUSE THOSE ARE THE
KINDS OF THINGS THAT YOU NEED
TO TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION
BECAUSE I JUST CREATED AN
INITIATIVE, JUST A
CREATED INITIATIVE.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT IS
VALUABLE?
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THE ISSUE.
I THINK I READ THE PAPER A HALF
AGO WHERE THERE WAS A
PRESENTATION ABOUT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO BUILD HOUSING
I GUESS ATTACHED TO CITY HALL
AND DAD I THINK THE STATEMENT
WAS THAT THERE WILL BE NO LOW
INCOME HOUSING, AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I FOUND THAT TO BE
CONTRADICTORY TO WHAT THE CITY
IS ABOUT.
THE CITY SHOULD BE LOOKING AT
TAKING CARE OF THOSE IN
ESPECIALLY WILL GOING TO BE
USING CITY PROPERTY TO BUILD
HOUSING.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE THEY CAN'T
AFFORD HOUSING OTHERWISE SHOULD
BE GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE
IN A STRUCTURE.
AFTER ALL, THIS IS THE PEOPLE'S
HOUSE.
YOU KNOW, WE PAY THEIR TAXES.
WE SUPPORT THIS.
SO I THINK THAT TO SAY THAT
THESE UNITS, WHATEVER THEY
WHATEVER THEY ARE BOUND TO COME
ABOUT WOULD NOT BE OPEN TO
PEOPLE WITH LOW INCOME.
I THINK THAT'S I DON'T THINK
THERE'S MORALLY RIGHT AND I
WOULD LIKE TO CONGRATULATE
SISTER CITY HARRISON FOR BEING
A PART OF THIS INITIATIVE.
I KNEW A MOTHER AND A FATHER.
I KNEW A FAMILY AND THEY WOULD
BE PROUD OF YOU FOR TAKING THE
INITIATIVE.
>> DID YOU TAKE IT?
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ONLY ONE
LOC GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
>> GLAD THAT A NINE HAS BEEN
PULLED FROM THE AGENDA FOR
FURTHER CONSIDERATION.
I'LL KEEP MY COMMENTS BRIEF.
IT MAY BE BACK IN AUGUST ONCE I
SEE WHAT THE NEXT GENERATION
WILL LOOK LIKE AS A PART
OF COUNCIL OF TWENTY EIGHTEEN
TO TWENTY TWENTY TWO I
CO-SPONSORED A MILLAGE FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I ALSO CO-SPONSORED THE
RESOLUTIONS TO TRANSFER THE
CITY OWNED PROPERTY TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION FOR A
NOMINAL FEE.
I THINK ONE DOLLAR TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS WE ALL
KNOW THIS SITE HAS BEEN HAS A
LONG HISTORY OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WAS THERE
BEFORE THINGS WERE TORN DOWN
AND LEFT VACANT.
SO IT WAS ALARMING FOR ME TO
SEE THAT COUNCIL HAD THOUGHT
OF ESSENTIALLY RENEGING ON
PRIOR COMMITMENTS WHILE ON
COUNCIL I WAS REMINDED THAT
PROMISES MADE A PROMISE
KEPT.
THERE WAS THE FORTY FORTY
TWENTY RESOLUTION WHICH I TRIED
UNSUCCESSFULLY TO OVERTURN YET
IT WAS VETOED AND PROMISES WERE
MADE AND PROMISES ARE KEPT WHEN
THE MILLAGE WAS PASSED WE ALL
KNEW IT WAS NOT ENOUGH MONEY.
WE ARE GOING TO NEED HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO
ADDRESS AFFORDABLE HOUSING NOW
JUST ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY MILLION.
IT WAS JUST ONE TOOL AT OUR
DISPOSAL A BIG TOOL TO TRANSFER
CITY OWNED PROPERTY TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN AND TWENTY EIGHTEEN
WE HEARD THE VALUE
OF LEVERAGING DOLLARS SO THAT
WE CAN USE LOW INCOME HOUSING
TAX CREDITS TO LEVERAGE FIVE
MILLION FOR TO BECOME FIFTY
MILLION.
I AM JUST HERE TODAY URGING
THIS COUNCIL TO RECONSIDER THIS
THOUGHT WHICH I BELIEVE IS A
FINANCIAL SHELL GAME.
IT IS TO FREE UP FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS FROM THE GENERAL FUND
TO SPEND ON OTHER INITIATIVES
AND PROJECTS.
MANY OF YOU CAMPAIGNED MOST IF
NOT ALL SOME ARE UNCONTESTED
BUT WHEN YOU'RE OUT THERE YOU
HEAR FROM FOLKS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS THE NUMBER ONE ISSUE
AND SINCE COVID IT'S EVEN
BECOME MORE ACUTE OF AN ISSUE,
I URGE THIS COUNCIL TO HONOR
PAST RESOLUTIONS AND TRANSFER
THIS PROPERTY FOR NEXT TO
NOTHING TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION.
DO NOT GO AHEAD WITH TAKING
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
END OF THE HOUSING COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN
.
REAL REPARATIONS REAL FAST
RIGHT NOW.
NOW ON TO MY TALK AT THE LAST
CITY COUNCIL MEETING WE HEARD
FROM COUNCIL MEMBER CHRIS
WATSON ABOUT HOW HE IS
RIGHTFULLY AFRAID OF THE
POLICE.
HE IS RIGHTFULLY AFRAID OF THE
SO YOU MIGHT GUESS THAT WATSON
POLICE.
WOULD IDENTIFY WITH
SO YOU MIGHT GUESS THAT WATSON
PALESTINIANS WHO ARE RIGHTFULLY
WOULD IDENTIFY WITH
AFRAID OF BEING KIDNAPED AND
PALESTINIANS WHO ARE RIGHTFULLY
KILLED BY THE ISRAELI MILITARY
AFRAID OF BEING KIDNAPED AND
NOT JUST PULLED OVER BUT NO
KILLED BY THE ISRAELI MILITARY
UNLESS WATSON IS THE ONE AND HE
NOT JUST PULLED OVER BUT NO
CANNOT EVEN MAKE EYE CONTACT.
UNLESS WATSON IS THE ONE AND HE
THERE WE GO.
CANNOT EVEN MAKE EYE CONTACT.
I CONTACT BUT NO UNLESS WATSON
THERE WE GO.
IS THE ONE GETTING PULLED OVER
I CONTACT BUT NO UNLESS WATSON
AND KILLED HIMSELF, HE SIMPLY
IS THE ONE GETTING PULLED OVER
DOESN'T CARE WHO ISRAEL KILLS
AND KILLED HIMSELF, HE SIMPLY
WITH HIS MONEY, DOESN'T CARE AT
DOESN'T CARE WHO ISRAEL KILLS
ALL FAR AS I CAN TELL.
WITH HIS MONEY, DOESN'T CARE AT
CORRECT ME IF I'M ISRAEL WAS
ALL FAR AS I CAN TELL.
ALMOST FOUNDED IN UGANDA IN
CORRECT ME IF I'M ISRAEL WAS
NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE EXCEPT THE
ALMOST FOUNDED IN UGANDA IN
WHITE SETTLERS STOP THE WHOLE
NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE EXCEPT THE
PLAN.
WHITE SETTLERS STOP THE WHOLE
SO INSTEAD OF MASSACRING
PLAN.
AFRICANS ISRAEL WENT OVER AND
SO INSTEAD OF MASSACRING
ESTABLISHED ITSELF IN PALESTINE
AFRICANS ISRAEL WENT OVER AND
TO MASSACRE PALESTINIANS.
ESTABLISHED ITSELF IN PALESTINE
IT COULD HAVE BEEN AFRICANS.
TO MASSACRE PALESTINIANS.
ISRAEL TRIED TO GIVE NUCLEAR
IT COULD HAVE BEEN AFRICANS.
WEAPONS THE ATOMIC BOMB TO
ISRAEL TRIED TO GIVE NUCLEAR
APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA TO KILL
WEAPONS THE ATOMIC BOMB TO
BLACK PEOPLE CHRIS TO KILL
APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA TO KILL
BLACK PEOPLE IF A COUNCIL
BLACK PEOPLE CHRIS TO KILL
MEMBER WATSON IS TOO BUSY HERE
BLACK PEOPLE IF A COUNCIL
,TOO BUSY CRYING LIKE A BABY
MEMBER WATSON IS TOO BUSY HERE
OVER THE SUFFERING OF THE
,TOO BUSY CRYING LIKE A BABY
EUROPEAN HOLOCAUST WHICH ENDED
OVER THE SUFFERING OF THE
IN NINETEEN FORTY FIVE WHAT A
EUROPEAN HOLOCAUST WHICH ENDED
PITIFUL SIFY WHAT A PITIFUL HE
IN NINETEEN FORTY FIVE WHAT A
KNOWS WHAT WHITE SUPREMACIST
PITIFUL SIFY WHAT A PITIFUL HE
STATE VIOLENCE IS.
KNOWS WHAT WHITE SUPREMACIST
HE KNOWS BUT DON'T ASK HIM FOR
STATE VIOLENCE IS.
A PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
HE KNOWS BUT DON'T ASK HIM FOR
RESOLUTION OR HE'S LIABLE.
A PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
THERE GOES I ARE RUNNING AWAY
RESOLUTION OR HE'S LIABLE.
FROM THE ROOM.
THERE GOES I ARE RUNNING AWAY
>> WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
FROM THE ROOM.
YOU IN A MINUTE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
DON'T ASK HIM FOR A PALESTINIAN
YOU IN A MINUTE.
HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTION OR ELSE
DON'T ASK HIM FOR A PALESTINIAN
I'LL GET DOWN ON HIS KNEES
HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTION OR ELSE
KNEES AND CRY OVER THE TRAGEDY
I'LL GET DOWN ON HIS KNEES
OF WHITE EUROPEANS OVER WHITE
KNEES AND CRY OVER THE TRAGEDY
EUROPEANS.
OF WHITE EUROPEANS OVER WHITE
BUT WHITE EUROPEANS ARE NOT
EUROPEANS.
AFRAID OF THE POLICE TODAY.
BUT WHITE EUROPEANS ARE NOT
THEY DON'T NEED YOUR TEARS,
AFRAID OF THE POLICE TODAY.
CHRIS.
THEY DON'T NEED YOUR TEARS,
PALESTINIANS NEED YOU AND IS
CHRIS.
WHISPERING IN HIS EAR GOD ONLY
PALESTINIANS NEED YOU AND IS
KNOWS WHY DO YOU THINK IT'S
WHISPERING IN HIS EAR GOD ONLY
RIGHT FOR PALESTINIANS TO PAY
KNOWS WHY DO YOU THINK IT'S
FOR THE HOLY CROSS PALESTINIANS
RIGHT FOR PALESTINIANS TO PAY
WHO GAVE YOU THAT IDEA PITIFUL
FOR THE HOLY CROSS PALESTINIANS
AS COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON IS
WHO GAVE YOU THAT IDEA PITIFUL
JANAYA SITTING THERE IS WORTH I
AS COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON IS
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
JANAYA SITTING THERE IS WORTH I
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
AND YOU KNOW THE IDF IS JUST
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
LIKE THE KU KLUX EXCEPT YOU
AND YOU KNOW THE IDF IS JUST
ARE PAYING THEM THREE POINT
LIKE THE KU KLUX EXCEPT YOU
EIGHT BILLION DOLLARS EVERY
ARE PAYING THEM THREE POINT
YEAR.
EIGHT BILLION DOLLARS EVERY
AND LOOK, IA IS NOW THINKING
YEAR.
THE WHOLE REPARATIONS VOTE FOR
AND LOOK, IA IS NOW THINKING
BLACK PEOPLE TRYING TO PIT
THE WHOLE REPARATIONS VOTE FOR
BLACK AND NATIVE PEOPLE AGAINST
BLACK PEOPLE TRYING TO PIT
EACH OTHER AND PUT THEM AT EACH
BLACK AND NATIVE PEOPLE AGAINST
OTHER'S THROATS FOR REPARATIONS
EACH OTHER AND PUT THEM AT EACH
MONEY.
OTHER'S THROATS FOR REPARATIONS
SHE WANTS THE BEST AND
MONEY.
BRIGHTEST MINDS TO DECIDE
SHE WANTS THE BEST AND
REPARATIONS.
BRIGHTEST MINDS TO DECIDE
WHO IS THAT OR CONSULTANT
REPARATIONS.
FRIENDS HER CONSULTANT CRONIES
WHO IS THAT OR CONSULTANT
.
FRIENDS HER CONSULTANT CRONIES
NEXT NIGHT OUR NEXT SPEAKER HE
.
IS JOHN SAVAR BSR FUNNY.
NEXT NIGHT OUR NEXT SPEAKER HE
OKAY, OH HELLO.
IS JOHN SAVAR BSR FUNNY.
ANN ARBOR.
OKAY, OH HELLO.
I'M HERE TO GO OVER WHAT HAS
ANN ARBOR.
HAPPENED IN THE PAST COUPLE
I'M HERE TO GO OVER WHAT HAS
OF WEEKS.
HAPPENED IN THE PAST COUPLE
THE LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING
OF WEEKS.
WE THE PEOPLE MANAGED TO PUT
THE LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING
THE ISSUE OF REPARATION TO
WE THE PEOPLE MANAGED TO PUT
BLACK AMERICA ON THE TABLE
THE ISSUE OF REPARATION TO
THESE PEOPLE HERE AND THEIR
BLACK AMERICA ON THE TABLE
BUDDIES BEFORE THEM NO ONE EVER
THESE PEOPLE HERE AND THEIR
DID THAT.
BUDDIES BEFORE THEM NO ONE EVER
THE PEOPLE OF THIS TOWN PUT THE
DID THAT.
ISSUE OF REPARATIONS ON THE
THE PEOPLE OF THIS TOWN PUT THE
AGENDA ON THE DISCUSSION TABLE
ISSUE OF REPARATIONS ON THE
A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO AND THERE
AGENDA ON THE DISCUSSION TABLE
IS AN ARTICLE IN ANN ARBOR
A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO AND THERE
NEWS .
IS AN ARTICLE IN ANN ARBOR
YOU CAN GO LOOK IT UP AND YOU
NEWS .
CAN SEE HOW ALL THESE PEOPLE
YOU CAN GO LOOK IT UP AND YOU
ARE BELLYACHING ABOUT ALL YOUR
CAN SEE HOW ALL THESE PEOPLE
ALL THEY REALLY WANT TO DO IT
ARE BELLYACHING ABOUT ALL YOUR
IF THEY WANTED TO DO IT, THEY
ALL THEY REALLY WANT TO DO IT
WOULD HAVE DONE IT.
IF THEY WANTED TO DO IT, THEY
LIKE BLAINE SAID IN THE
WOULD HAVE DONE IT.
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS BLACK PEOPLE
LIKE BLAINE SAID IN THE
WERE ASKING FOR REPARATIONS.
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS BLACK PEOPLE
THEY WERE SAYING GIVE US A MULE
WERE ASKING FOR REPARATIONS.
AND 40 ACRES AND WE WOULD
THEY WERE SAYING GIVE US A MULE
SUSTAIN OURSELVES.
AND 40 ACRES AND WE WOULD
DID THEY GIVE IT TO THEM?
SUSTAIN OURSELVES.
NO.
DID THEY GIVE IT TO THEM?
THESE PEOPLE HAVE NO INTENTIONS
NO.
OF GIVING ANYTHING TO BLACKS OR
THESE PEOPLE HAVE NO INTENTIONS
POOR PEOPLE OR NATIVE PEOPLE OR
OF GIVING ANYTHING TO BLACKS OR
ANYTHING AS MUCH AS THEY SAY
POOR PEOPLE OR NATIVE PEOPLE OR
THEY ITEM AND THEY DON'T SAY IT
ANYTHING AS MUCH AS THEY SAY
MUCH BUT ANYWAY THEY HAVE NO
THEY ITEM AND THEY DON'T SAY IT
INTENTION.
MUCH BUT ANYWAY THEY HAVE NO
WE HAVE TO KICK THEIR INTO
INTENTION.
ACTUALLY DOING IT.
WE HAVE TO KICK THEIR INTO
SO I WANT TO ASK EVERYONE OVER
ACTUALLY DOING IT.
TO COME HERE, SPEAK FOR
SO I WANT TO ASK EVERYONE OVER
REPARATIONS AND LET US PUSH
TO COME HERE, SPEAK FOR
ENFORCE THESE PEOPLE TO DO IT
REPARATIONS AND LET US PUSH
AGAIN, AS BLAINE SAID AND AS
ENFORCE THESE PEOPLE TO DO IT
YOU CAN SEE FROM EVERYONE WHO
AGAIN, AS BLAINE SAID AND AS
SPEAKS HERE, THE POPULATION IN
YOU CAN SEE FROM EVERYONE WHO
THIS TOWN IS NOT HAPPY WITH THE
SPEAKS HERE, THE POPULATION IN
RECORD THAT THIS BUNCH HAS.
THIS TOWN IS NOT HAPPY WITH THE
THIS BUNCH GETS PUSHED INTO
RECORD THAT THIS BUNCH HAS.
THEIR PLACES BY THE DONATIONS
THIS BUNCH GETS PUSHED INTO
THEY ACCEPT FROM THE ULTRA
THEIR PLACES BY THE DONATIONS
WEALTHY IN THIS TOWN.
THEY ACCEPT FROM THE ULTRA
THEY TAKE OVER THE SEATS AND
WEALTHY IN THIS TOWN.
THEY VOTE ALL OF THEM WITH MR.
THEY TAKE OVER THE SEATS AND
MAYOR HERE WHO IS THE MAN FOR
THEY VOTE ALL OF THEM WITH MR.
DECIDING WHAT GOES AND WHAT
MAYOR HERE WHO IS THE MAN FOR
DOESN'T.
DECIDING WHAT GOES AND WHAT
SO WE WANT A REPRESENTATIVE
DOESN'T.
CITY GOVERNMENT.
SO WE WANT A REPRESENTATIVE
THIS IS NOT REPRESENTING THE
CITY GOVERNMENT.
PEOPLE AS YOU CAN SEE AFTER
THIS IS NOT REPRESENTING THE
TWENTY YEARS OF JUST TALKING
PEOPLE AS YOU CAN SEE AFTER
ABOUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING, WE DO
TWENTY YEARS OF JUST TALKING
NOT HAVE A FEDERAL HOUSING BUT
ABOUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING, WE DO
WE HAVE A LOT OF LUXURY HOUSING
NOT HAVE A FEDERAL HOUSING BUT
THAT NOBODY CAN AFFORD.
WE HAVE A LOT OF LUXURY HOUSING
EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
THAT NOBODY CAN AFFORD.
MINIMUM LEVEL OF HOUSES THAT
EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
YOU CAN NO, NO.
MINIMUM LEVEL OF HOUSES THAT
THAT IS A SHAME THAT TELLS YOU
YOU CAN NO, NO.
CLEARLY THAT THIS CITY COUNCIL
THAT IS A SHAME THAT TELLS YOU
DOES NOT CARE ABOUT REGULAR
CLEARLY THAT THIS CITY COUNCIL
PEOPLE.
DOES NOT CARE ABOUT REGULAR
IT CARES ABOUT THE RICH.
PEOPLE.
THIS CITY COUNCIL DOESN'T CARE
IT CARES ABOUT THE RICH.
ABOUT BLACKS BUT WE HAVE TO
THIS CITY COUNCIL DOESN'T CARE
FORCE THEM TO CARE IF THEY DID
ABOUT BLACKS BUT WE HAVE TO
CARE.
FORCE THEM TO CARE IF THEY DID
DO YOU THINK THAT YOU THINK THE
CARE.
UNIVERSITY WOULD BE ACCEPTING
DO YOU THINK THAT YOU THINK THE
FOUR PERCENT BLACK ENROLLMENT?
UNIVERSITY WOULD BE ACCEPTING
>> NO, THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN BIG
FOUR PERCENT BLACK ENROLLMENT?
BRINGING IT UP TO TEN PERCENT
>> NO, THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN BIG
WHICH IS WHAT THEY PROMISED
BRINGING IT UP TO TEN PERCENT
FIFTY YEARS AGO.
WHICH IS WHAT THEY PROMISED
ANY OF THESE GUYS EVER PUSHED
FIFTY YEARS AGO.
THE UNIVERSITY TO DO IT?
ANY OF THESE GUYS EVER PUSHED
NO, THEY HAVEN'T.
THE UNIVERSITY TO DO IT?
LOOK AT THE URBAN OFFICE SAID
NO, THEY HAVEN'T.
IN MANY, MANY COMMUNITIES
LOOK AT THE URBAN OFFICE SAID
OF BLACKS HAVE BEEN PUSHED OUT
IN MANY, MANY COMMUNITIES
OF THIS TOWN BECAUSE OF THESE
OF BLACKS HAVE BEEN PUSHED OUT
GUYS.
OF THIS TOWN BECAUSE OF THESE
SO DO BE FOOLED BY THEM WHEN
GUYS.
THEY TELL YOU YEAH, WE WILL
SO DO BE FOOLED BY THEM WHEN
HAVE COMMITTEES, WE WILL TALK
THEY TELL YOU YEAH, WE WILL
ABOUT REPARATIONS.
HAVE COMMITTEES, WE WILL TALK
NO THEY WILL NOT THEY WILL MAKE
ABOUT REPARATIONS.
SURE THAT GETS RIGHT DOWN TO
NO THEY WILL NOT THEY WILL MAKE
THE FLOOR.
SURE THAT GETS RIGHT DOWN TO
>> SO COME HERE, SPEAK FOR
THE FLOOR.
REPARATIONS, SPEAK FOR
>> SO COME HERE, SPEAK FOR
PALESTINIANS WHO ARE FIGHTING
REPARATIONS, SPEAK FOR
STRUGGLING AGAINST HUMAN RIGHTS
PALESTINIANS WHO ARE FIGHTING
ABUSES.
STRUGGLING AGAINST HUMAN RIGHTS
>> ISRAEL OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
ABUSES.
TOM STOLLBERG
.
MR. STOLLBERG PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR.
>> GO AHEAD TELEPHONE NO MORE
COMING OVER.
I TRY NOT TO SPEAK OUT HERE.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK MEMBERS
FOR JUST PULLING THIS FROM THE
AGENDA AGENDA IN ITS ENTIRETY.
>> I NEED TO FOCUS ON VOTING
THE EXPECTATIONS OF THE PEOPLE
WE GET PAST AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MORTGAGE AND WE HAVE
CERTAIN EXPECTATIONS ABOUT WHAT
TO DO ABOUT THE HOUSING ON THAT
SITE WHILE WE IDENTIFY THAT
THAT'S JUST THE IDEAL LOCATION
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING RIGHT
DOWNTOWN RIGHT NEXT TO THE
TRANSIT CENTER IF I RECALL TALK
ABOUT NOT HAVING ANY PROBLEM
WITH THE HAVING A PAYMENT FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT GLADLY
FORTUNATELY I ALWAYS SAY AND WE
HAVE NO HOPE FOR BUILDING THAT
WOULD HAVE A MINIMUM NUMBER
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS.
>> I FORGET THE EXACT NUMBER
BUT A COUPLE OF THOUSAND ONE
WILL BE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BECAUSE THE POSSIBILITY OF THAT
BUILDING GOING UP IS SOMETHING
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE ABOUT
THREE PERCENT MORE THAN
PEOPLE'S EXPECTATIONS GOING
INTO THAT PROGRAM AS WE REBUILD
THIS WHOLE PROJECT WHERE THE
MONEY IS GOING, WHERE IT'S
COMING FROM, WE THINK
ABOUT
WHAT THE PEOPLE'S EXPECTATIONS
WERE.
WE PASSED AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
VILLAGE.
I MEAN WE SUPPORTED DEVELOPMENT
ANALYSIS OF THE CITY ON SITES
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ASSISTING WITH WASHINGTON THAT
OVERSHADOWING WHAT'S GOING ON.
THERE IS AN OUTSPOKEN BEFORE
BUT WE'RE GOING TO WORK ON
THAT.
WE'RE GOING TO DO ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON THAT SITE
AND THE SWITCH OVER THERE WILL
MAKE IT MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MONEY WHATSOEVER.
I THINK CERTAIN DEVELOPERS WHO
ARE DOING THE RIGHT THING IN
TERMS OF PROVIDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, PROVIDING EVERYBODY
TECHNE I WANT TO CALL THE
DEVELOPER OF THE MOBILE.
I THINK IT'S A SHINING EXAMPLE
,RIGHT.
SINCE THEY FIRST CAME TO THE
GAME, THE PLANNING COMMISSION
OF SOMEBODY SET UP WHAT THE
CITY WANTS WITH THE PEOPLE
OF THE CITY WANT AND DELIVERED
ON AFFORDABLE SUSTAINABILITY
FROM THE OUTSET NOT BEING TO
NEGOTIATE THEY MADE THIRTY
YEARS OF DEVELOPMENT AND ASKED
US WHAT KIND OF MESSAGE DO WE
SEND?
>> BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA.
>> BUT WHAT'S ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT?
WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE DETAILS
LATER.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT A MILLION
DOLLARS FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
DO ANYTHING WHATSOEVER AND I'M
MEETING FOR SUSTAINABLE TIME
BOSTON.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
DESH I WANTED TO SAY THAT I AND
A FEW OTHER MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
AND THE MAYOR VISITED OUR
SISTER CITY OF TUBINGEN,
GERMANY LAST WEEK AND I FEEL
VERY FORTUNATE AND VERY
GRATEFUL TO HAVE BEEN PART
OF THAT DELEGATION.
OUR HOSTS THOUGHTFULLY PREPARED
TO TEACH US ABOUT THEIR
STRATEGIES AND PROGRESS TOWARDS
REACHING CARBON NEUTRALITY BY
2030.
WE ALL TOOK A LOT OF NOTES AND
WE ALL LEARNED A GREAT DEAL AND
I WILL BE THAT WILL BE
INFORMING JUDGMENTS AND
STRATEGIES THAT I HAVE AND
OTHERS HAVE HERE SOONER THAN
LATER AND RELATED TO THE AS I
WILL BE HOLDING ITS SECOND
ANNUAL HOME ELECTRIFICATION
EXPO ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 11TH
FROM FIVE TO NINE P.M. AT 350
DETROIT STREET.
>> THIS IS A GREAT CHANCE, AN
OPPORTUNITY TO FIND OUT HOW YOU
CAN MAKE YOUR HOME GREENER.
>> THIS IS ONE THING THAT WE
WITH OUR OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION IS IS FURTHER AHEAD
ON THAN TUEBINGEN IS THEY'RE
INTERESTED IN DOING MORE
PRIVATE HOMEOWNER FOCUSED
THINGS BUT WE'VE REALLY GOT
THOSE MOVING WITH BOTH THE
SOLAR RAYS PROGRAM AND WITH
THIS ONE.
>> SO I WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
ABOUT THAT AND I WANTED TO HE'S
GONE BUT I WANTED TO THANK OUR
CONSTITUENT WHO SPOKE ABOUT THE
CASCADES AND EXPRESSED HIS
APPRECIATION FOR THEM BUT DID
WANT TO CALL OUR ATTENTION TO
THE FACT THAT IT'S A REGIONAL
RECREATIONAL ATTRACTION NOT
EVEN A STONE'S THROW FROM A
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S IN A RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I AM GRATEFUL
FOR ALL OF THE EFFORTS THAT
STAFF AND APD HAVE MADE TO MAKE
THOSE THINGS MESH BETTER.
IT'S STILL A CHALLENGE AND I
HOPE THAT WE'LL THINK ABOUT
WAYS THAT WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
FURTHER OFFSET SOME OF THE THE
INCONVENIENCES THAT HAVE
RESULTED FROM SO THANK YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK MR.
FISHER FOR COMING TONIGHT FOR
SHARING WHAT YOU SHARED WITH
US.
IT'S THE FIRST I'VE HEARD
OF IT.
I JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT IT
CONCERNS ME GREATLY.
I WILL BE LOOKING INTO IT.
I'M SURE OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS
WHOSE EYES I'VE GOT AS YOU WERE
SPEAKING WILL BE LOOKING INTO
IT AS WELL.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU IF YOU
HAVEN'T ALREADY TO TO TALK WITH
APOC THE THE INDEPENDENT POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND WE'LL
WE'LL LOOK INTO IT.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR MCCONNELL.
>> THANK YOU.
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONVERSATION
AT A PREVIOUS COUNCIL MEETING
ABOUT HOW THE CITY HANDLES
BROWNFIELD PROJECTS AND I JUST
WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW THAT I
HAVE BEEN APPOINTED TO THE
COUNTY'S BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
SO WE'LL BE PAYING OBVIOUSLY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO PROJECTS
THAT COME FORWARD AND YOU KNOW,
SERVING AS THE THE CITY'S EYES
AND EARS ON THAT GROUP COUNCIL
RACKMAN, THANK YOU.
I WANT TO WORK FOR RESIDENTS
KNOW ABOUT THE OMEGA PARK
PLAYGROUND PROJECT BECAUSE THAT
STARTS THE WEEK OF JULY 24TH.
CONSTRUCTION IS EXPECTED TO
TAKE ABOUT FOUR WEEKS AND MANY
AWESOME FEATURES ARE GOING TO
BE INCLUDED BASED ON COMMUNITY
FEEDBACK INCLUDING A NEW SLIDE
NATURE AND WOODLAND THEMED
CLIMBING FEATURES AND A LOG
CRAWL.
I ALSO WANTED TO DRAW PEOPLE'S
ATTENTION TO THE PARK.
THERE'S A TRANSPORTATION UPDATE
IN THERE, SOME KEY ITEMS THAT I
WANTED TO FOCUS ON WERE THE
SUBDIVISION CYCLE TRACK.
IT'S BEEN EXTENDED SOUTH
BETWEEN PACKARD AND HOOVER.
PARKING WAS REMOVED I BELIEVE
YOU KNOW THAT.
>> BUT IT WAS A FEW MONTHS AGO
TO MAKE ROOM FOR THE CYCLE
TRACK.
I ALSO THINK THIS IS THE FIRST
PROTECTED CYCLE TRACK WE HAVE
OUTSIDE BOUNDARIES.
SO I FEEL LIKE AS SOON AS I SAY
THAT SOMEONE MIGHT PROVE ME
WRONG BUT IT'S QUITE PLEASANT
ALSO YOU MIGHT BE NOTICING SOME
PAINT MARKINGS GOING UP AROUND
TOWN THAT'S PART OF THE QUICK
BUILD PROGRAM THAT ALLOWS US TO
IMPLEMENT PROJECTS THAT MAKE
THE STREETS SAFER KIND
OF CHEAPLY AND QUICKLY.
WE CAN TRY THINGS OUT AND THEN
MAKE THEM MORE PERMANENT LATER
SO THE PAINT IS UP AND THEY'RE
ABOUT TO INSTALL SOME
DELINEATOR SOME PLACES.
SO THAT'S IT.
>> THANKS.
OUR SONG IS ACTUALLY GIVING
PUBLIC COMMENTS AND SUPERIOR
TOWNSHIP IN SUPPORT OF GARRETT
SPACE WHICH IS SEEKING REZONING
FOR MENTAL HEALTH FACILITY FOR
YOUTH AND TEENS.
>> I WANT TO SHARE A QUICK
UPDATE.
ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO WE HAD
SPOKEN ABOUT POTENTIALLY
LIMITING FACIAL RECOGNITION
TECHNOLOGY IN THE CITY AND HOW
WE POLICE AND PROSECUTORS SAYS
GIVEN POOR PRECEDENT IN DETROIT
AND HOW THIS TECHNOLOGY IS USED
AND TO THE DETRIMENT OF BIPAC
FOLKS AND WE'VE MADE ADDITIONAL
PROGRESS WITH OUR HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSIONERS AND CITY
PROSECUTOR JAN GENACHOWSKI IS
WORKING WITH US AND INTERIM
CHIEF METZER ON BRINGING SOME
LANGUAGE FORWARD ON A
RESOLUTION AND OUR HOPE IS THAT
WE'D HAVE A DRAFT AND BE ABLE
TO COME TO VOTE SOMETIME IN
SEPTEMBER.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BREEKS THANKS
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL AND I
HAD OUR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
YESTERDAY AND HEARD FROM
RESIDENTS A LOT OF DIFFERENT
TOPICS.
BUT THE ONE THAT I JUST WANTED
TO SHARE AT THIS TABLE TONIGHT
THAT HAS COME UP REPEATEDLY IS
THE ISSUE OF DTG RELIABLE?
I THINK I'VE SPOKEN TO IT
BEFORE THE POWER SURGE THAT
HAPPENED IN THE FIFTH WARD AND
FOLKS ARE STILL COMING TO OUR
OUR OUR MONTHLY MEETINGS
REACHING OUT TO US VIA EMAIL,
YOU KNOW, AS THEY RECEIVE
FEEDBACK FROM DTG SAYING THAT'S
REALLY NOTHING IT COULD HAVE
BEEN DONE TO PREVENT A POWER
SURGE OF THIS MAGNITUDE.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT RESULTED
IN, YOU KNOW, HUNDREDS TO
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OF DAMAGE
RESULTED IN, YOU KNOW,
SITUATIONS THAT COULD COULD
HAVE ENDED AND FIRES IN
HOUSEHOLDS AND BASICALLY ASKING
US AS A CITY TO SERVE IN SOME
CAPACITY TO PROVIDE AS A MORE
NEUTRAL SOURCE OF INFORMATION
ON ON THIS MATTER AND TO
PROVIDE THAT LEVEL OF EXPERTIZE
THAT THEY CAN'T NECESSARILY GO
TO TO EAT UNDERSTAND WHAT COULD
HAVE PREVENTED THIS THIS PAST
INSTANT AND WHAT COULD HAVE
HAPPENED IN THE FUTURE.
SO I'VE MADE THAT REQUEST TO
THE ENERGY COMMISSION BUT I'M
ALSO JUST SHARING IT HERE AT
THE AT THE TABLE BECAUSE I
THINK IT'S IT'S CERTAINLY AN
ISSUE THAT WE'VE WE'VE HEARD IN
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT THIS RECENT INCIDENT WAS
INCREDIBLY PROBLEMATIC.
>> SO FURTHER COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AT THE JULY SIX, 2003 REGULAR
SESSION TO THE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMITTEE JAMES
BUERGE, THE FOURTH TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION VINCENT
KAKHABER CAVUTO AND ALEXA BUSH
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN READINESS BY
COUNCILMAN DISH DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED TO PROVE WITH
COUNCIL'S INDULGENCE I'D LIKE
TO POP BACK TO SEEK ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPOINT JAMES
BUZZARD TO THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION MOVE BY
WELL THAT'S WHY.
WHICH ONE WHAT DID
JULIUS
BUZZARD OH THAT'S JUST THE
FIRST IT DOESN'T GET MENTIONED
IT'S BEEN ASSERTED THAT IT WAS
IT WAS AT OUR PREVIOUS MEETING.
IS THAT
OH PLEASE
.
>> AND JULY 11TH
SO I DON'T
THINK ONE WAS MOVED IN AMENDED.
>> I WAS MOVED AND SECONDED WAS
IT.
NO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE JUST TALKING HERE WELL
SINCE WE'RE JUST TALKING HERE
I'LL JUST SAY SUPER BRIEFLY
THAT I'D LIKE TO FOR MY PART
EXPRESSED A GREAT DEAL OF OF
PRIDE AND GRATITUDE FOR THE THE
DELEGATION SISTER CITY
DELEGATION THAT WENT TO TO
BEGIN THIS PAST WEEK WAS MADE
UP OF A NUMBER OF COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND A NUMBER OF MEMBERS
OF SENIOR STAFF AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK THE THE FOLKS IN TO WERE
WERE IMPRESSED BY BY OUR
ENGAGEMENT AND ENTHUSIASM TO
LEARN ABOUT THE PROJECT THAT
THEY HAVE THERE FROM WE I THINK
AS A DELEGATION UP AND DOWN THE
LINE COME BACK TO ANN ARBOR
WITH WITH A GREAT DEAL
OF ENERGY AND A GREAT DEAL
OF INSPIRATION AS TO HOW WE IN
ANN ARBOR IN GOVERNMENT CAN
HELP BETTER SERVE OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO STRUCTURE PUBLIC
SPACE TO WORK TO ACCOMPLISH OUR
EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS TO AND
PROBABLY SPEAKING BETTER
ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF LIFE
OF ALL RESIDENTS WE WHILE WE
ARE IN CUBA BEGIN SAW SO MUCH
AND LEARN SO MUCH AND YOU KNOW,
I THINK YOU KNOW, THE STAFF AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS SERVICE WILL
WILL BE THE BETTER FOR IT.
I I'M YOU KNOW, LOOKING FORWARD
TO TO AN ANTICIPATED VISIT BY
OUR TV AND FRIENDS IN IN 2024
IN CONNECTION WITH OF COURSE
OUR ONGOING CELEBRATION OF AN
ARBOR'S BICENTENNIAL, THE
SISTER CITY RELATIONSHIP WE
HAVE TO BEGIN AND WE HAVE WITH
OUR SISTER CITY JAPAN THE
ECONOMY IS LONG, LONG STANDING
AND IT BENEFITS THE LIVES AND
EXPERIENCES OF RESIDENTS AND
HAS DONE SO FOR FOUR DECADES
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO ITS ITS
CONTINUANCE WE NOW HAVE BEFORE
US THE CONCEPT OF GENDER NEVER
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONCEPT OF GENDER MOVE BY
COUNCIL CORNELL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION OF A CONSENT AGENDA
WELL IN FAVOR FOR NOW I MIGHT
BE DOING THIS OUT OF ORDER.
>> NO THAT'S RIGHT.
>> NO I'M DOING IT OUT
OF ORDER.
I WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS THIS
SEVEN OH OH NO THAN YOU ARE.
>> YES I AM IN SO YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR A PORSCHE SEVEN,
CORRECT?
GOT IT FOR THE DISCUSSION
CONSENT AGENDA OR MAYBE THEY
CAN SET THE AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION.
>> C11 PLEASE SAY HI.
OK OPPOSED THE THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF K
SEVEN IS APPROVED WITH NINE
COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE ONE AND THAT IS
ALL CASE SEVEN RESOLUTION TO
APPROPRIATE AND INCREASE THE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOUR ON LDK
BUDGET BY 400000 MOVE BY
COUNCIL MCCONNELL SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE KESAVAN
MEMBER GRENELLE MR. DOUGHNEY IS
MISPRISION AVAILABLE TO DO A
STAFF INTRODUCTION NOT AN
INTRODUCTION BUT SHE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO A QUESTION.
OK THEN LET ME TRY AND PASS IT
OUT HERE IN MY COMMENTS THIS
WAS PRIOR TO MY ELECTION AND
SERVING ON COUNCIL THE STATE
AWARDED SMART ZONE FUNDING TO
THE SMART ENTITIES ACROSS THE
STATE THAT WE ARE LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY
BENEFITED FROM WITH THE
INTENTION OF AWARDING FOUR
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
GRANTS FOR PURPOSES TO PROMOTE
OUR ENTREPRENEURIAL DRIVEN AND
HIGH TECH ECONOMY HERE LOCALLY
DUE TO COVID THAT MONEY WAS NOT
THAT MONEY WAS NOT AWARDED FOR
VARIOUS REASONS AND INSTEAD
OF IT WAS A USE IT OR LOSE IT
SITUATION WHERE WE WOULD IF NOT
SPENT ACCORDING TO THE GRANT
AGREEMENT WOULD HAVE TO RETURN
THAT MONEY TO THE STATE.
SO VERSUS RETURNING THAT MONEY
TO THE STATE WHERE IT WOULD NOT
DIRECTLY BENEFIT OUR LOCAL
ECONOMY, THE DFE BOARD DID
DECIDE TO ALLOCATE THIS FUNDING
TO SPARK WHO IS OUR SMART ZONE
PARTNER AND THAT EXTRA FOUR
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS THIS
INCREASE IN THEIR BUDGET WILL
GO TOWARDS TWO INITIATIVES
SPACY PERFECTLY DESIGNED TO
MEET THE CITY'S BROADER GOALS
AND SO TWO INITIATIVES THAT
SPARK IS LOOKING TO IMPLEMENT
WITH THAT FUNDING IS A I
INITIATIVE WHICH WOULD WORK TO
SUPPORT AND DIRECTLY ENCOURAGE
ENTREPRENEURIAL GROWTH WITHIN
BIPAC AND MINORITY COMMUNITIES
AND THE SECOND HALF OF THAT
FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLAR
INCREASE WOULD GO TO SUPPORT
INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
AROUND CIRCULAR ECONOMY
INITIATIVES AND SO DIRECTLY IN
SUPPORT OF TWO REALLY IMPORTANT
THINGS THAT WE'VE HEARD THE
COMMUNITY WANTS.
SO THIS IS IN ADDITION TO
SPARKS REGULAR CONTRACT THE
IDEA OF A CONTRACT THAT WE HAVE
WITH THAT ORGANIZATION AND IS A
ONE TIME FUNDING.
SO I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WAS CLEAR THAT THIS IS
THIS FUNDING IS FOR A VERY
SPECIFIC PURPOSE AND IS A ONE
TIME INCREASE IN THE CONTRACT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
POSED?
>> IT IS APPROVE A TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
>> PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE IN ORDER TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE RELATED ITEM ON THE
AGENDA.
>> SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN THIRTY
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND THE
ZONING MAP BEING A PART
OF SECTION FIVE TEND TO
OF CHAPTER 55 OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ZONING SIX POINT FOUR
ACRES FROM C ONE 8R WITH
CONDITIONS CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO SEE ONE
ARE WITH CONDITIONS AS AMENDED
CAMPUS BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT ONE ONE FOUR ZERO
BROADWAY BEAKMAN ON BROADWAY
REZONING.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
OR
GOOD EVENING I'M RON MUJTABA
PRINCIPAL WITH MORNINGSIDE
GROUP AND I'M JOINED TONIGHT
VIRTUALLY I BELIEVE BECAUSE I
CAN'T SEE THE SCREEN BEHIND ME
BUT MY MY PARTNER DAVID
GROSBERG, OUR CIVIL AND
PLANNING CONSULTANT TOM OVER
FROM MIDWESTERN CONSULTING AND
OUR TRAFFIC ENGINEER JULIE
CROAL FROM FELICE AND VAN DEN
BRINK.
I DON'T HAVE A LONG SPEECH TO
MAKE.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY I JUST
WANTED TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO THANK THE COUNTLESS
STAKEHOLDERS THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY THAT HAVE SUPPORTED
THE PROJECT THIS 2017 WHEN IT
WAS APPROVED WITHOUT THEIR
SUPPORT AND IT CONTINUES TO
THIS DAY WE WOULDN'T HAVE THE
PROFOUND PUBLIC BENEFITS THAT
THE PROJECT HAS YIELDED.
IT'S INCOMPARABLE IN TERMS
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY, THE
AFFORDABILITY DENSITY, PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE, PROPERTY TAX
GROWTH IS SOMETHING THAT OFTEN
JUST WE FORGET TO MENTION
ENOUGH I FORGET TO MENTION
ENOUGH EXCUSE ME IS THE THE
REDUCTION IN THE TAX INCREMENT
FINANCING THAT WE WERE ABLE TO
ACHIEVE.
SO YOU MAY REMEMBER THE PROJECT
THAT WAS APPROVED PRIOR TO OURS
THAT FAILED WAS ABLE TO SECURE
A FORTY MILLION DOLLAR TEF
COMMITMENT AND WE WERE ABLE TO
REDUCE THAT 75 PERCENT TO ABOUT
11 MILLION AND ACHIEVE FAR MORE
IN THE WAY OF PUBLIC BENEFITS.
SO WITH THAT I'D JUST LIKE TO
SAY I'D BE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
PLEASE JUST COME ON UP.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS GREG MARX.
I'M A RESIDENT AT 16 21 HARBEL
JUST UP THE HILL FROM THE
NINETY NINE MAIDEN LANE
DEVELOPMENT AND I WROTE YOU A
SHORT LETTER ON FRIDAY I HOPE
YOU TURNED DOWN THE ZONING
CHANGE AND I TOOK THE EFFORT
WONDERING WHY THE PROJECT HAD
TAKEN ON THE CHARACTERISTICS
THAT IT HAD TO GO THROUGH THE
THE CITY'S PLANNING COMMISSION
DOCUMENTS THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND ALL THE VARIOUS
ELEMENTS OF IT AND EVERY TIME I
READ ONE OF THEM, WHETHER I
START WITH A TWO ZERO AND THEN
I LOOK AT GAS APPLIANCES OR I
LOOK AT THE TRANSPORTATION
DEPARTMENT SAYING THEY URGE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO NOT
APPROVE AND THEN I LOOK AT THE
NORTHEAST CORRIDOR TRAFFIC PLAN
A DOCUMENT SEVERAL YEARS AGO
AND I SEE HOW EVERYTHING COMES
TOGETHER THERE AT THE PLYMOUTH
ROAD MAIDEN LANE JUNCTION AND
THERE'S NO PLAN FOR THAT.
THERE'S NO ASSESSMENT OF THE
TRAFFIC LOAD AND THAT PERSON
SAID IN THE CITY DON'T APPROVE
THIS TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AND YET WE HAVE I JUST DROVE
DOWN MAIN LANE THIS EVENING AND
I LOOK AT IT AND I SEE NO
BICYCLE PATHS.
I SEE A SIDEWALK ON ONE SIDE, A
WHOLE BUNCH OF POWER POLES FROM
A STATIC STANDPOINT, ANOTHER
CONSIDERATION, NOT A GOOD
LOOKING ENVIRONMENT.
IT DOESN'T FIT WITH WHAT
INTERIOR DESIGN PLANS AGAIN IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SAID I
COULD GO ON BUT IT JUST SEEMS
TO ME THAT SOMETHING IS
SERIOUSLY OUT OF KILTER.
I LOOK AT AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I LOOK AT THE MULTIUSE ASPECTS
GO BACK AND LOOK AT THE
OLD
LOWERTOWN COMMISSION PLAN
OF 2009 WITH WHAT THEY THOUGHT
WAS A DESIRABLE WAY TO USE WHAT
HAD BEEN A GREAT KROGER A LOT
DRUGSTORE.
SO ON.
>> BUT ALL THAT IS GONE AND WE
HAVE SOMETHING IT'S A VERY
DIFFERENT USE OF THE PLAN SO I
DON'T UNDERSTAND.
SO I HOPE YOU DON'T APPROVE THE
ZONING AND SEND THIS BACK TO
THE COMMISSION FOR FURTHER WORK
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS LAURA STROUD
THIRTEEN TWENTY SEVEN BROADWAY.
I HOPE YOU ALL HAD TIME TO READ
MY LETTER.
YES GOOD BECAUSE I DON'T WANT
TO REPEAT THE LETTER AND I'M
SORRY I SENT IT TO YOU TWICE
THE FIRST LETTER SAID JANUARY
17TH I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WAS
DOING WITH HIM BUT WE NEED
RETAIL IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'LL BE CAREFUL TO AVOID NOW
THE CATCHWORDS YOU SEEM TO
DISLIKE, PRESERVE, PROTECT THE
INTEGRITY OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND FRIEND MAINTAIN CHARACTER.
IT IS WRONG FOR US TO IS IT
WRONG FOR US TO WANT TO
MAINTAIN AND PROTECT OUR THE
CHARACTER OF OUR WONDERFUL
NEIGHBORHOOD?
WELL WHATEVER.
INSTEAD I WANT TO ASK YOU TO
THINK ABOUT THE WORDS THAT YOU
SHOULD LIKE SUSTAINABILITY
UNWORKABILITY EXIS EVERY
DEVELOPER IN THIS AREA
OF LOWERTOWN AND THERE AREN'T A
LOT OF CHANCES LEFT WILL BEG
OFF RETAIL BECAUSE IT IS
NOTORIOUSLY HARD TO PULL OFF
RETAIL ANYWHERE IN THE CITY IS
AS MANY OF YOU KNOW,
APARTMENTS, EVEN EXPENSIVE
APARTMENTS LIKE BEEKMAN ARE
APPARENTLY GOLDMINES THE
UNIVERSITY PROVIDES DEVELOPERS
WITH A HARD TO RESIST MARKET
OF EITHER RICH STUDENTS OR
THOSE WILLING TO GO INTO DEBT
BY CONSTANTLY INCREASING ITS
ENROLLMENT.
IT IS IRRESISTIBLE ALL OVER
TOWN TO SERVICE THIS MARKET AND
IGNORE OUR REAL NEEDS FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND WE ALL
KNOW THAT THE PALTRY
REQUIREMENTS THE DEVELOPERS ARE
OFTEN FORCED TO MAKE BY HAVING
A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF LOWER
RENT UNITS IS JUST THAT PALTRY
.
>> THE DEVELOPER DEVELOPER
OF WILL TELL YOU THAT THIS
THIRD BUILDING IS NEITHER THE
BEST SPOT FOR RETAIL NOR IS IT
THE RIGHT TIME.
I'VE ALREADY DEBUNKED BOTH
OF THOSE ARGUMENTS IN MY LETTER
TO YOU, MR. MUJER ARGUES THAT
THIS HISTORIC THIS AREA
HISTORICALLY CAN'T SUPPORT
RETAIL BUT KROGER'S WAS WAS ONE
OF THE MOST POPULAR AND
SUCCESSFUL STORES IN THE CITY
AND IT FAILED AS I POINTED OUT
TO YOU, IT DIDN'T FAIL BUT IT
WAS JUDGED BY CORPORATE PEOPLE
THAT THERE SHOULD BE BETTER
BIGGER KROGER'S AND SO THEY
REMOVED IT WASN'T TRUE BACK
WHEN KROGER'S WAS THERE THAT
RETAIL COULDN'T BE SUPPORTED BY
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT SURELY
ISN'T WITH AT LEAST 800 NEW
APARTMENTS IN THE AREA ALONG
WITH NEW HOSPITAL FACILITIES TO
U OF M PARKING STRUCTURES RIGHT
ACROSS THE STREET, HE WILL
POINT TO THE NORTH SIDE GRILL
BLOCK AS A BETTER PLACE FOR
RETAIL.
BUT THE OLD PARTY STORE THAT'S
THERE JUST SOLD FOR A WHOPPING
AMOUNT.
I FORGET SOMETHING MILLIONS AND
WHOEVER BOUGHT IT WILL NO DOUBT
GIVE YOU THE SAME ARGUMENT THAT
RETAIL IS TOO UNRELIABLE FOR
INVESTMENT.
>> A BIT OF RETAIL IN THIS
FINAL MORNINGSIDE BUILDING AND
I'M ONLY ASKING YOU FOR A BIT
INSTEAD OF A FEW APARTMENTS ON
THE GROUND FLOOR WOULD BE GOOD
FOR EVERYONE.
IT WILL MAKE MORNINGSIDE
APARTMENTS MORE ATTRACTIVE AND
SERVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS SERVE
A BAD WORD.
>> I JUST HOPE NOT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
HI STEVE KAPLAN.
I LIVE ON DIVISION STREET JUST
OVER THE BRIDGE FROM THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND I'VE BEEN HERE
BEFORE AND I'M HERE AGAIN TO
CONTINUE MY SUPPORT FOR THIS
PROJECT AND AND TO SORT
OF PROVIDE MAYBE A DIFFERENT
ANGLE.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE THERE HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSIONS SO FAR ON
SUSTAINABILITY AND GREEN
INITIATIVES AND WITH FIRES IN
CANADA AND A NUMBER OF OTHER
THINGS AND HEAT WAVES, YOU
KNOW, IT'S NEVER BEEN CLEARER
THAT WE HAVE TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT THESE THINGS.
>> WHAT I'D LIKE IT SORT
OF BRING BACK UP IS TWENTY
YEARS AGO WE WERE THINKING
ABOUT THIS THERE WAS A GREEN
BELT INITIATIVE THAT WE PASSED
2003 AND THE IDEA THAT WAS PART
AND PARCEL OF THAT WAS TO CLOSE
OFF SPRAWL AND DEVELOPMENT
GOING OUTWARD AWAY FROM THE
CENTER WHICH WOULD NECESSITATE
MORE DRIVING AND MORE COMMUTING
AND MORE GREENHOUSE GASES BUT
WHICH WOULD NECESSARILY REQUIRE
DENSER DEVELOPMENT IN CORE
AREAS THAT ARE CLOSER TO MAJOR
ATTRACTIONS IN OUR CITY.
THE HOSPITAL BEING AN OBVIOUS
ONE.
THIS BUILDING DOES JUST THAT
AND IN THE TIME SINCE THE
GREENBELT INITIATIVE THE LAST
TWENTY YEARS AND MY NUMBERS ARE
VAGUE BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW
EXACT NUMBERS AND I APOLOGIZE
BUT UNIVERSITY'S ENROLLMENT WAS
SOMEWHERE IN THE MID 30S THIRTY
THOUSAND THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND
AND NOW WE'RE COMING UP ON 54
SO WE'VE GONE UP BY ABOUT
TWENTY THOUSAND ENROLLED
STUDENTS IN THE LAST TWENTY
YEARS.
IT TOOK ABOUT FIVE YEARS AFTER
THE GREENBELT INITIATIVE FOR
THE MOMENTUM OF DEVELOPMENT IN
TOWN TO START RESPONDING TO
THAT INITIATIVE AND BY ABOUT I
THINK 2008 WE WERE SEEING THE
FIRST BUILDINGS FOR ELEVEN OFFS
ON THE CORNER OF DIVISION AND
WASHINGTON ZEREGA GONE ON THE
CORNER OF SOUTH AND EAST YOU
WHERE I THINK SOME OF THE EARLY
EARLY BUILDINGS OF THIS TYPE
AND IN THE FIFTEEN YEARS SINCE
ALL OF THEM ADDED TOGETHER IF
YOU COUNT THE BEDROOMS IS
ELEVEN THOUSAND BEDROOMS.
SO WE'VE CREATED HOUSING FOR
ELEVEN THOUSAND MORE STUDENTS
WHERE THE DEMAND HAS GONE
ALMOST TWO TO ONE UP BECAUSE
OF ENROLLMENT.
THE 800 POUND GORILLA IN THIS
ROOM IS THE UNIVERSITY.
IT'S WHY MOST OF US LIVE HERE.
IT'S WHY THIS CITY EXISTS AND
THAT FACT NECESSITATES
EVERYTHING SO WE CAN ARGUE THAT
THERE'S GREED OR YOU KNOW,
DEVELOPERS DO IT BECAUSE THEY
LIKE IT OR IT'S IRRESISTIBLE.
>> IT'S BEFORE YOU GET AT THAT
POINT IT'S NECESSARY EVERYTHING
WE WORRY ABOUT IN TERMS
OF AFFORDABILITY AND PRICE
POINTS OF HOUSING IS BEING
DRIVEN BY THAT FACT FIRST AND
FOREMOST AND HOW WE RESPOND TO
IT AND HOW AGGRESSIVELY WE
RESPOND TO IT IN THIS AREA AND
IN OTHER AREAS WILL DETERMINE
HOW MUCH LEEWAY WE HAVE TO
REALLY ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS
OF PRICING AFTER THAT.
BUT FIRST WE HAVE TO WE HAVE TO
STOP FALLING BEHIND OR TWO TO
ONE BEHIND.
WE HAVE TO FIX THAT PROBLEM
FIRST AND THEN GET TO THINGS
LIKE HOW HOW WE FIND PLACES TO
BUILD BUILD SUBSIDIZED HOUSING
SO THAT WE CAN GET MULTIPLE
PRICE POINTS ONE THAT THAT'S
PERFECT.
>> THANK NELSON HOUSE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING CALLER WITH A PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN SIX FOR FOUR
FOUR STAR SIX TWO ON MEET YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CATHY BORUFF.
I LIVE AT ONE SEVEN SIX
CHARLTON AND WARD FIVE TONIGHT
I WOULD LIKE TO URGE CITY
COUNCIL TO REJECT MORNINGSIDE
REQUEST TO REMOVE THE CURRENT
ZONING CONDITIONS ON THE
LOWERTOWN BEAKMAN DEVELOPMENT
ALTHOUGH THE REZONING AND
ALTERED SITE PLAN AND TONIGHT'S
AGENDA FOR ABOUT 120 ADDITIONAL
RESIDENTIAL UNITS, THIS WILL
NOT LIKELY BE JEOPARDIZED BY
NEGOTIATING WITH THE DEVELOPER
FOR SOMETHING EVEN BETTER, EVEN
MORE ADVANTAGEOUS FOR OUR CITY.
THE CITY COUNCIL SHOULD VOTE NO
ON THE REZONING BOTH BECAUSE
THE DEVELOPER IS OFFERING SO
LITTLE MIXED USE THAT THE SITE
WILL SCARCELY RESEMBLE THE
MIXED USE URBAN VILLAGE THAT
HAS LONG BEEN RECOMMENDED BY
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
BECAUSE THIS DEVELOPMENT WILL
NOT MOVE US TOWARD ONE OF OUR
CURRENT PLANNING INITIATIVES
THE 15 MINUTE WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD NEITHER CAN BOAST
BRINGING US CLOSER TO OUR
SUSTAINABLE CITY GOALS BY
SIGNIFICANT ELECTRIFICATION AS
WAS SUGGESTED TO THE DEVELOPER
BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
AND OUR RESIDENTS ARE PAYING A
MILLAGE FOR BOTH CLIMATE ACTION
AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> IN MY VIEW DEVELOPERS SHOULD
BE PART OF THE EQUATION TO THE
GENERAL PUBLIC SHOULD NOT BE
FOOLED.
THE CURRENT CONDITIONAL ZONING
ABSOLUTELY GIVES CITY COUNCIL
THE OPTION TO ASK FOR MORE FROM
THIS DEVELOPMENT.
IN OTHER WORDS, CITY COUNCIL
HAS A CHOICE YOU CAN VOTE YES
ON THE REZONING AND LIKELY ADD
TO MORNINGSIDE PROFITS OR YOU
CAN VOTE NO ON THE REZONING
THEY THEREBY GIVING THE
DEVELOPER THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PROPOSE SOMETHING BETTER
SOMETHING THAT IS MORE IN LINE
WITH THEIR NEIGHBORS CLEARLY
STATED GOALS OF MAKING OUR CITY
MORE SUSTAINABLE, MORE
AFFORDABLE AND MORE WALKABLE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN THREE, FOUR OR FIVE.
GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS CARRIE KAHN SAFEWORD
.
>> I'M CALLING TO ENCOURAGE YOU
TO VOTE NO ON REZONING.
>> THIS IS THE PERFECT
OPPORTUNITY TO HOLD THE
DEVELOPER TO HIS PROMISES TO
MAKE THIS A MIXED USE URBAN
VILLAGE IF YOU KNOW HE WILL
HAVE TO COME UP WITH A BETTER
PLAN.
>> SOME HAVE SAID
THE DEVELOPER
WILL JUST NOT BUILD ANYTHING IF
THIS IS NOT APPROVED BUT HE HAS
TOO MUCH INVESTED TO JUST GO
AWAY HOUSING.
BUT THE PEOPLE LIVING IN THAT
HOUSING NEED THOUGHT TO BUY
GROCERIES AND OTHER RETAIL AS
WELL.
>> THE DEVELOPER HAS ALREADY
GOTTEN RID OF MOST OF THE
RETAIL IN THIS LOCATION.
HOLD HIM TO HIS PROMISES TO
MAKE THIS MIXU PLEASE VOTE NO
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
HI THIS IS ADAM JUST CALLING
FROM THE FOURTH WARD AND I
WOULD LIKE TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
SUPPORT US AND VOTE YES ON THIS
ON THIS ITEM AS WELL AS THE
FOLLOWING ITEM FOR THE SITE
PLAN APPROVAL AND I I REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT WE ARE FINALLY
SEEING THIS SITE DEVELOPED.
IT'S BEEN A WHILE FIRST A
CRUMBLING STRIP MALL AND WITH A
FENCE AROUND IT AND THEN AN
EMPTY FIELD WITH A FENCE AROUND
IT AND NOW THERE'S BUILDINGS
THERE AND I'M GLAD THAT WE'RE
SEEING MORE BUILDINGS THERE AND
MORE PEOPLE LIVING THERE AND
THE MIXED USE URBAN VILLAGE
IDEA THAT WAS THAT WAS TOSSED
AROUND A DECADE AGO OR YEAH, I
GUESS A BIT MORE THAN ABOUT
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO OR SO SIMPLY
NEVER HAPPENED.
SO I I LIKED THAT IDEA.
>> BE NICE IF WE HAD GOTTEN OUT
15 YEARS AGO BUT WE DIDN'T SO
I'M HAPPY TO SEE THIS GOING IN
NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> TOLERATE THE PHONE NUMBER
AGAIN FIVE THREE FOUR
AMERICAL
I WANT TO TALK AT LENGTH ABOUT
THE DISCUSSION THE CITY COUNCIL
HAS WITH THIS VOTE AND ABOUT
WHAT THAT MEANS IN TERMS
OF BEING ABLE TO ACHIEVE
SUSTAINABILITY BY ANY FURTHER
EVENTS WHETHER THAT PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING IS
LOCATION RELATED.
WE WILL CALL IT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BY TWENTY SIXTEEN
POINT SEVENTY FIVE PER
RESIDENTIAL VERY DENSE
DEVELOPMENT AT THIS LOCATION
AND WE'RE HOPING THAT WILL
INCLUDE A MIX URBAN VILLAGE AND
SOME AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE HAVE SUPPORTED AND I WILL
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
DENSITY WHICH OF THIRD BASE
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT?
>> WE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
NEEDS IF THE CONDITIONS ARE
NORMAL YOU UNDER DISCUSSION,
YOU HAVE TO ASK THE DEVELOPER
SUSTAINABLY INCLUDE MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO
INCREDIBLE DETAIL AND REPORT
THEN THEY CAN OF A MODERATE IS
THE CONDITION ON THE HIGHEST
LEVEL OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE
WHATEVER GO YOU CAN CALL THE
WHOLE PLAN RIGHT NOW BUT THEN
ONCE YOU'RE OPERATING WITH A
YES VOTE ON BOTH THESE OF THE
BUDGET WOULD CUT AND SALE
PROPERTY COULD SOMETHING ELSE
THAT WE WANT TO AND HAVE A
RESTRICTION BUT THEY OFFICE NO
RESIDENTIAL WHATSOEVER.
MAYBE THAT'S A POSSIBILITY.
THAT'S A KEY.
IF WE WANT TO HAVE ASK YOU TAKE
AWAY THE CONDITIONAL ROWDEN
YOU'RE LOCKING IN THE CYCLE AND
THE TROOPERS AFTERWARDS YOU'RE
GIVING AN APPROVAL TO IT BUT
THE DEVELOPER CAN DO ANYTHING
THAT THE CEILING WITH THE
REMAINING CONDITIONS I DON'T
THINK I'M READY FOR THIS
POSTPONEMENT IS IN ORDER TO
UNDERSTAND COMPLEXITY OF WHAT
THIS MEANS.
>> I PREFER LIKE REJECTION
BECAUSE OF THE ARROGANCE
OF THIS DEVELOPER THAT MEETING
OUR SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS
AS OTHER DEVELOPERS ARE WILLING
TO MAKE WHAT'S POSSIBLE OR BEST
FOR ANY SECOND SET OF BACKUP
GENERATORS AS WELL AS OTHER
DEVELOPERS ARE DOING EVEN
BETTER BEFORE ELECTRIFICATION
LOOKS DEVELOPER DEVELOPER IN
BOTH KICKSTARTER.
I THINK WE NEED TO SEND A
MESSAGE TO YOUR CITIZENS AND
THE OTHER DEVELOPERS WILL
BETTER THE SUSTAINABILITY EVERY
BIT OF TIME.
>> WE GOT TO ASK THIS GUY TO
TRY TO DO IT IS TO TURN DOWN
THIS APPLICATION.
>> THANK THANK YOU
.
>> LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YES, THANK YOU.
>> LUIS VASQUEZ FROM UPPER
LOWERTOWN TOWN WANTED TO SPEAK
IN FAVOR OF THIS REZONING.
IT'S GOING TO BE BRINGING MUCH
NEEDED HOUSING TO THE AREA.
I MEAN A NET GAIN OF ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED AND TEN HUNDRED AND
TWENTY HOUSING UNITS IS IS
GREAT FOR THE AREA AND YEAH, I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE MORE
OFFERS BY THE DEVELOPER TO
INCLUDE MORE ELECTROPAC AND I
THINK THAT WOULD BE A GREAT
IDEA BUT YEAH WE REALLY NEED
THE HOUSING SO PLEASE SUPPORT
THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT.
HI GOOD EVENING.
SO I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE
SPECIFIC CHANGES THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED, THESE ARE THESE ARE A
GREAT WIN FOR THE CITY.
WE ARE SEEING RESIDENTIAL UNITS
AND LESS PARKING AND I REALLY
WANT TO SAY THAT, YOU KNOW, IN
THAT PARTICULAR CASE I HAVE TO
SEE IT.
I THINK THIS SHOWS THE WISDOM
OF CITY COUNCIL'S PRIOR
DECISION TO REMOVE ALL MINIMUM
APARTMENT REQUIREMENTS.
THE CITY WE'RE SEEING
DEVELOPERS ACTUALLY REALIZED
THAT THEY DON'T NEED TO BUILD
AS MUCH PARKING AS YOU KNOW, WE
WOULD HAVE PREVIOUSLY REQUIRED
AND THAT'S FANTASTIC.
I HOPE WE CONTINUE TO SEE THAT
.
SO IF I HAD ONE COMPLAINT ABOUT
THIS TONIGHT, IT'S THAT IT'S
BEFORE CITY COUNCIL THAT ALL SO
I WANT TO YOU KNOW, VEHEMENTLY
DISAGREE WITH ONE OF THE
PREVIOUS COMMENTERS THAT
BECAUSE I THINK THIS PROJECT
SHOULD NEVER HAVE HAD THE SITE
ATTACHED TO THE ZONING AS A
CONDITION NOW TO BE THE
DEVELOPER REQUESTED THAT
BECAUSE THAT IS THE ONLY WAY
THAT YOU CAN DO A CONDITIONAL
ZONING.
BUT THE DEVELOPER DID THIS ONLY
BECAUSE WHAT THEY PERCEIVED AS
THE POLITICAL REALITY TO BE ONE
OF THE PREVIOUS COMMENTERS ALSO
ALREADY BROUGHT UP THE STARK
NUMBERS OF OF JUST WHAT
UNIVERSITY ENROLLMENT GROWTH IS
DOING TO US IN OUR HOUSING
MARKET AND THAT'S NOT THE ONLY
THING THEY'VE HAD SIMILAR
NUMBERS OF STAFF GROWTH AND
THERE'S OTHER OTHER DRIVERS
OF INCREASED DEMAND FOR HOUSING
AND IN OUR ARBOR EVEN BESIDES
THE UNIVERSITY SO FIGHTING OVER
EVERY SINGLE SITE LIKE THIS
WILL NEVER GET US TO WHERE WE
NEED TO BE TO RESOLVE THIS
HOUSING CRISIS.
WE NEED TO ALLOW A LOT MORE
DEVELOPMENT BY RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK THAT YOU KNOW
WHAT IS BEING ASKED OF YOU
TONIGHT IS IS NOT ONLY A GOOD
THING TO DO TONIGHT BUT SHOULD
HAVE BEEN WHAT WAS DONE IN THE
FIRST PLACE WITH THIS SITE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE
CALLING IN FROM SOUTH OF DNA
THAT I'D LOVE TO SEE MORE
RETAIL IN THIS AREA.
>> I REALLY, REALLY WOULD BUT
NOT AT THE COST OF EXACERBATING
OUR HOUSING CRISIS.
IT'S MORE IMPORTANT TO ME THAT
WE ALLOW MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE IN
ANN ARBOR AND NOT HAVE TO
COMMUTE FROM FAR AWAY THEN
FORCING THE CONSTRUCTION
OF EMPTY RETAIL SPACES DENSITY
IS THE KEY TO PROVIDING FOR THE
15 MINUTE NEIGHBORHOODS WE WANT
TO SEE.
UNFORTUNATELY HISTORICAL
DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES INCLUDING
THE INFRASTRUCTURE WE'VE BUILT
THAT ENCOURAGES MORE DRIVING
WORKS AGAINST THAT THE CITY
SIMPLY DOESN'T HAVE THE POWER
TO MAGIC UP MORE DEMAND FOR
RETAIL IN THE SPACE IT'S NOT
THE CITY DOES HAVE THE POWER TO
DO APPROVE MORE DENSITY SO MORE
PEOPLE CAN LIVE IN WALKING
DISTANCE AND WE CAN CREATE THE
CONDITIONS THAT WILL ALLOW 15
MINUTE URBAN VILLAGE TO THRIVE
IN THE OUTER THAT'S UP ZONE
BROADWAY THAT'S UPSIDE PONTIAC
TRAIL AND TRAVEL ROAD AND SWIFT
STREET THAT'S A LA 24 HOUR A
COMPLEX APARTMENT COMPLEX.
I WRITE IN THIS IN THIS WHOLE
AREA AND IT'LL HAPPEN THEN THE
RETAIL WILL COME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MICHELLE HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT BY I JUST WANTED TO
TELL A REAL QUICK STORY.
I KNEW SOMEONE WHO WAS LOOKING
FOR AN APARTMENT IN ANN ARBOR
AND THEY THEY ONE OF THE PLACES
THAT THEY WERE LOOKING FOR THAT
APARTMENT TURNED OUT TO BE AT
BEEKMAN ON BROADWAY, THE PARTS
THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN BUILT
AND
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO DO THAT IF IT HAD NEVER
BEEN BUILT AND EVERY ONE
OF THESE NEW UNITS THAT GETS
BUILT THERE, THAT'S THAT'S
GOING TO BE ANOTHER STORY JUST
LIKE THAT.
PEOPLE CAN ONLY LOOK FOR
HOUSING THAT'S HERE AND SO WE
SHOULD HAVE HOUSING HERE FOR
THOSE PEOPLE TO LOOK AT AND
CONSIDER MOVING INTO BANKS.
THANK YOU.
HOLLER AT THE PHONE.
NO RUNNING IN TWO FOR ONE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD.
YEAH, LET ME YEAH.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN YEAH.
AWESOME.
>> THANK YOU.
HI NINA.
THESE MEETINGS NEVER BEEN TO
ONE BEFORE BUT BEEN BORN AND
RAISED IN THIS TOWN TWENTY FIVE
AND WENT TO UNIVERSITY IN
MICHIGAN AS WELL AND I GUESS
I'M NOT REALLY FAMILIAR WITH
THE ZONING PRINCIPLES COME TO
THE NEXT MEETING MORE PREPARED
JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE
IMPERSONAL COME IN PERSON.
BUT I GUESS THE MAIN THING WITH
THE ZONING CONCEPTS THAT I
THINK I'M A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNED ABOUT IS JUST THE
PERCEIVED PERSON WHO HAS BEEN
IN THIS TOWN FOR A LONG TIME.
IT SEEMS LIKE EVERYTHING SEEMS
TO BE GOING INTO A VERY
SPECIFIC DIRECTION AND IF THESE
ZONING PRINCIPLES OR WHATEVER
IT IS, I DON'T REALLY FRANKLY
CARE ABOUT DEVELOPER RIGHTS.
THAT'S NOT AN IMPORTANT PART
OF THIS DYNAMIC.
I'M SAYING DOZENS OF MORE
HOMELESS PEOPLE ON THE STREET
EVERY AND THEY COME UP TO ME
REGULARLY ASKING ME FOR MONEY
AND HAVING CONVERSATIONS WITH
ME AND IT'S BECOMING MORE AND
MORE CONCERNING TO ME TO THINK
ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT HAPPENING
WHEN I JUST DON'T REALLY
UNDERSTAND WHY LIKE AT THE
LUXURY HOUSING COMING UP ACROSS
MY NEIGHBORHOOD MORE VALUES
OF HOUSES THAT ARE EIGHT
HUNDRED THOUSAND TO ONE POINT
TWO MILLION.
WHERE IS THE HOUSING THAT'S
UNDER A THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
RENT?
I'M JUST I UNDERSTAND THERE'S A
LOT OF FOLKS COMING FROM THE
EAST COAST WEST COAST WHO GO TO
SCHOOL HERE.
I WENT TO SCHOOLS, MANY OF THEM
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THAT
SHOULD BE WHERE WE PUT THE
VALUE AND IF IT IF I'M WHAT I'M
HEARING IS ONE HUNDRED ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY UNITS OF HOUSING
THAT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE QUITE A
LOT.
I MIGHT JUST BE NEGLIGENT ON
WHAT THE ACTUAL POLICY IS HERE
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE YOU NEED TO
BE CREATING A LOT MORE HOUSING
FOR A DECENT POPULATION IN BE
MORE CREATIVE ABOUT HOW YOU CAN
GET THE MONEY FOR LOW INCOME
HOUSING.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT WORKS
EXACTLY BUT MY APPEAL TO YOU
ALL IN THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING
IF YOU ARE TO CHOOSE TO MAKE
SUCH AN APPROVAL OR DECLINE,
REALLY THINK ABOUT WHETHER THIS
IS ACTUALLY IMPACTING PEOPLE
ACTUALLY NEED IT MOST.
I DON'T I DON'T HAVE THE ANSWER
BECAUSE I HAVE READ THE POLICY
YET BUT THAT SEEMS INTEGRAL TO
THIS IS ABOUT DEVELOPMENT.
WE HAVE ENOUGH DEVELOPMENT
HERE.
IT'S A LOVELY CITY WITH YOUR
WHOLE LIFE I'VE BEEN VERY
PRIVILEGED HERE MY WHOLE LIFE
AND I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
FACT THAT IT'S NOT ACTUALLY
DIVERSITY AND THAT INCORPORATES
CLASS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC
HEARING NO TO RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE NINE NINE NINE MADE IN
PLAIN SIGHT PLAN AND FIRST
AMENDMENT ONE ELEVEN PART OF ME
TO ELEVEN FORTY BROADWAY
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING BY ALL MEANS
BROADWAY FIRST OF ALL THE
UNIVERSITY IS PROVIDING A LOT
OF NEW HOUSING AND I THINK WE
NEED TO TAKE THAT INTO ACCOUNT.
IT'S NOT THE SITUATION WAS A
FEW YEARS AGO THEY'VE STARTED
TO BUILD THEY'VE STARTED TO BUY
A PROPERTY SO THAT THEY COULD
BUILD SOME MORE AND AND THAT'S
A GOOD THING BECAUSE THEY
SHOULD BE PROVIDING FOR THE NEW
STUDENTS THAT THEY ADMIT AND IT
SHOULDN'T BE ON OUR SHOULDERS
TO DO THAT.
AS I SAID IN MY LETTER TO YOU,
I WANT TO REPEAT THAT I THINK
THAT THE DEVELOPER WAS THAT FOR
ME IT WAS NOT OK.
THE DEVELOPER COULD GIVE US
SOMETHING FOR THE NEGATIVES
THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT HAS
CAUSED THE NEIGHBORHOOD THERE
IS A WIND TUNNEL ON MAIDEN LANE
AS WELL AS ON BROADWAY.
WE'RE IN SHADOW WHEN WE WALK
AROUND WE SEE LESS SKY.
I'M SORRY IF I'M BRINGING UP
HUMANITARIAN THINGS HERE AND
NOT CONCRETE STUFF BUT THESE
ARE PART OF WHAT MAKES LIFE
GOOD AND NOT TO MENTION THE
FACT THAT IT'S ONE OF THE
UGLIEST BUILDINGS IN THE CITY
AND THAT'S NOT JUST MY OPINION
AND THAT REMINDS ME THAT I WANT
TO SAY THAT ALTHOUGH NOT MANY
PEOPLE HAVE COME TO THIS
HEARING, I'M THE NEIGHBORHOOD
REPRESENTATIVE AND I KNOW FROM
LETTERS THAT I GET ON OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD LISTSERV THAT MANY
PEOPLE ARE DISTRESSED BY THIS
THAT THIS NEW BUILDING WILL BE
GOING IN WITHOUT RETAIL,
WITHOUT ELECTRIFICATION TO TO
THE EXTENT THAT IT SHOULD BE
AND SO I SPEAK FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL.
>> I WANT TO TELL YOU A STORY
IN THE HEARING O YEARS AGO WHEN
HE'S WHEN THIS WAS FIRST CAME
UP ONE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
PEOPLE POINTED OUT THAT ONE
PERCENT OF THIS PROJECT IS
OWNED IS MIXED USE IS RETAIL
AND THAT DOESN'T REALLY MAKE
FOR MIXED USE THAT IF YOU
BOUGHT A PACKAGE OF FROZEN
VEGETABLES AND IT SAID MIXED
VEGETABLES AND YOU GOT ALL
CARROTS AND ONE PEA YOU
WOULDN'T CALL IT MIXED USE OR
MIXED VEGETABLES AND THIS
SHOULDN'T BE CALLED MIXED USE
JUST BECAUSE THERE'S ONE
PERCENT OF RETAIL IN IT AND AND
WE HAD ASKED FOR MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT HERE.
SO PLEASE GIVE US WHAT WE WANT.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'M JUST GAVAGE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> YEAH, ADAM JUST GIVE IT UP
AGAIN IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I JUST ONE THING I FORGOT TO
MENTION THAT I MEANT TO TALK
ABOUT THE IN THE FIRST PUBLIC
HEARING I WASN'T GOING TO SPEAK
IN BOTH BUT I WANTED TO MENTION
THAT AS THIS IS NEW DEVELOPMENT
AND NEW TECH SPACE, IT WOULD BE
PAYING INTO OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND CLIMATE MILEAGES
AND I'M GLAD THAT THAT WOULD BE
HAPPENING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> COLOR AT THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
I WANT TO
PICK UP ON THAT PROPAGATE IN
VILLAGE HOW MANY PROBABLY DO
THE MATH AND SAY FOR NEW
BEDROOM THIS IS ALL REALLY
THREE YAKOVLEVA BARSTOW'S
DISFAVORING TO MAKE UP THAT
HIGH OUR EIGHTY YOU'RE HOPING
IT WILL BE LIKE TWENTY THIRTY
IF WE KEEP DIGGING HOLES THAT
ARE VERY DIFFICULT AND WE HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY AND THAT BEING
SUCH A DEEP HOLE DEMANDS THAT
WE HAVE IS GOING TO BE NEEDED
BY THE CABINET COMPENSATED FOR
THIS KIND OF PROJECT.
THERE IS DISCRETION TO GET
BETTER CLIMATE ACTION THAT IS
SUSTAINABLE ON THIS.
>> ALSO IF THE FIRST PART
OF THIS IS THAT IT IS NOT ON
THE PIPELINE, WE DON'T WORK THE
SAME PLAN MAYBE IT WILL BE A
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT SITE WHEN
ON THIS ONE LET'S TALK ABOUT
THIS ONE.
OK, THE SOCIAL FABRIC CONCEPT
AND THE DEVELOPMENT FROM A HALF
MILE AWAY FROM FULL POWER
THERE'S A OF DETAIL I GUESS SO
EASY GAVE UP ON THIS LOCATION.
OH, BY ITSELF IF YOU FOR WE
THEM YOU CAN YOU CAN
TO
COMPLETE THIS DEVELOPER BY THE
ARE TRYING TO WORK HARD ON OUR
PROPERTY SUSTAINABLE HOMEOWNERS
TRYING TO MAKE THE MOST OUT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE FORCED TO
FIGURE OUT OF THE MORE
EFFICIENT WITH THIRTY SECONDS
WE WILL NOW HAVE TO SOLVE THE
HOUSING WE WORKING HARD I WILL
BE CHARGE ONTO LOCAL TIME THIS
DEVELOPER WHAT MESSAGE ARE YOU
SENDING IF YOU SAY YES TO THE
DEVELOPER THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> I WOULD SLOWLY WOULD COMMENT
HI THIS IS ONCE AGAIN ALEX LOWE
.
CALLING IN FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST
HI THIS IS ONCE AGAIN ALEX LOWE
DECEMBER.
CALLING IN FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST
>> WE NEED MORE HOUSING ONE
DECEMBER.
HUNDRED NINETY SIX UNITS IS NOT
>> WE NEED MORE HOUSING ONE
ENOUGH SEVEN FLOORS IS NOT
HUNDRED NINETY SIX UNITS IS NOT
ENOUGH.
ENOUGH SEVEN FLOORS IS NOT
>> THIS PROJECT SHOULD BE
ENOUGH.
EXCEEDING SUPPLIES IN HEIGHT.
>> THIS PROJECT SHOULD BE
>> THE FACT THAT OUR TALLEST
EXCEEDING SUPPLIES IN HEIGHT.
BUILDING HAS BEEN AS HAS BEEN
>> THE FACT THAT OUR TALLEST
TOGETHER SINCE 1969 SINCE SAYS
BUILDING HAS BEEN AS HAS BEEN
TO ME THAT OUR NEIGHBORS ARE
TOGETHER SINCE 1969 SINCE SAYS
STILL SPENDING TOO MUCH TIME
TO ME THAT OUR NEIGHBORS ARE
THINKING TWO DIMENSIONALLY
STILL SPENDING TOO MUCH TIME
THERE.
THINKING TWO DIMENSIONALLY
>> QUITE FRANKLY WE HAVE SO
THERE.
MUCH HORIZONTAL SPACE IN THE
>> QUITE FRANKLY WE HAVE SO
CITY OF CLIMATE.
MUCH HORIZONTAL SPACE IN THE
>> I'D LOVE TO SEE THIS BE ALL
CITY OF CLIMATE.
ELECTRIC.
>> I'D LOVE TO SEE THIS BE ALL
I LOVE TO BE MORE CLIMATE
ELECTRIC.
FRIENDLY THAT THAN IT IS BUT
I LOVE TO BE MORE CLIMATE
WHAT I DON'T WANT TO DO IS MAKE
FRIENDLY THAT THAN IT IS BUT
THE PERFECT THE ENEMY OF THE
WHAT I DON'T WANT TO DO IS MAKE
GOOD.
THE PERFECT THE ENEMY OF THE
>> LET'S ASSUME THAT ONE PERSON
GOOD.
LIVES IN EACH OF THESE HUNDRED
>> LET'S ASSUME THAT ONE PERSON
AND NINETY SIX UNITS.
LIVES IN EACH OF THESE HUNDRED
WHAT'S THE ALTERNATIVE IF IT
AND NINETY SIX UNITS.
DOESN'T GET BUILT ONE HUNDRED
WHAT'S THE ALTERNATIVE IF IT
AND NINETY SIX HOUSES IN
DOESN'T GET BUILT ONE HUNDRED
WHITMORE LAKE ONE HUNDRED AND
AND NINETY SIX HOUSES IN
NINETY SIX HOUSES DOWN IN THE
WHITMORE LAKE ONE HUNDRED AND
SOUTHERN PART OF PITTSFIELD
NINETY SIX HOUSES DOWN IN THE
TOWNSHIP THAT THAT SEEMS A
SOUTHERN PART OF PITTSFIELD
WHOLE LOT WORSE TO ME.
TOWNSHIP THAT THAT SEEMS A
WE WE KNOW THAT SINGLE FAMILY
WHOLE LOT WORSE TO ME.
HOUSES ARE LESS EFFICIENT THAN
WE WE KNOW THAT SINGLE FAMILY
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
HOUSES ARE LESS EFFICIENT THAN
WE KNOW THAT THAT THAT MAKING
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
PEOPLE DRIVE IN RATHER THAN
WE KNOW THAT THAT THAT MAKING
BEING RIGHT HERE IN THE MIDDLE
PEOPLE DRIVE IN RATHER THAN
OF THE CITY IS MORE AN ENERGY
BEING RIGHT HERE IN THE MIDDLE
INTENSIVE.
OF THE CITY IS MORE AN ENERGY
SO THE FACT THAT THE FACT
INTENSIVE.
OF THIS ISN'T PERFECT IS YEAH,
SO THE FACT THAT THE FACT
IT'S IT'S DISAPPOINTING BUT
OF THIS ISN'T PERFECT IS YEAH,
IT'S BETTER THAN THE
IT'S IT'S DISAPPOINTING BUT
ALTERNATIVE AND WE'VE GOT TO
IT'S BETTER THAN THE
REMEMBER THAT WE NEED TO
ALTERNATIVE AND WE'VE GOT TO
CONSIDER THIS IN COMPARISON TO
REMEMBER THAT WE NEED TO
THE ALTERNATIVE, NOT IN
CONSIDER THIS IN COMPARISON TO
COMPARISON TO OUR PIPEDREAMS.
THE ALTERNATIVE, NOT IN
THANK YOU.
COMPARISON TO OUR PIPEDREAMS.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
SEE ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF JULY
SIX, 2003.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECOND COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES WHILE FABER POSED THE
MINUTES APPROVED BY ONE AND
AUDIENCE TO AMEND THE ZONING
THAT BEING PART OF SECTION FIVE
TEN TO CHAPTER 55 OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE THE STEPHEN ANN
ARBOR ZONING OF SIX POINT FOUR
ACRES FROM C ONE R WITH
CONDITIONS CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO SEE ONE
R WITH CONDITIONS AS AMENDED
CAMPUS BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT ONE ONE FOUR ZERO
BROADWAY BEAKMAN ON BROADWAY
REZONING MOVE BY COUNT ON
BRITISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE ONE COUNTY BRITISH.
>> THANK YOU AND I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE EVERYONE WHO TOOK
THEIR TIME TO COME TONIGHT AND
SPEAK AND THANK YOU ALL VERY
MUCH.
I SYMPATHIZE WITH VERY MUCH
THAT I HAVE HEARD SO WE ARE
ASKED TO AMEND THE CONDITIONS
OF A C ONE A R ZONING DISTRICT
IN ORDER TO CREATE MORE THAN
TWICE THE HOUSING UNITS WHERE A
LESS DENSE PROJECT HAD
ORIGINALLY BEEN ENVISIONED.
WHEN YOU HEAR AMENDING OR
LIFTING THE CONDITION IT MIGHT
SOUND LIKE WE'RE FREEING THE
DEVELOPER TO DO MORE OF WHAT
THEY WANT IN THIS CASE WE'RE
FREEING THE DEVELOPER TO DO
MORE OF WHAT WE WANT.
INSTEAD OF AN EIGHTY CONDO
PROJECT FOR SALE WE WILL GET
ONE HUNDRED NINETY SIX UNITS
OF RENTAL HOUSING AT A SITE
THAT IS IDEALLY SITUATED TO
PROMOTE WALKING AND BIKING.
>> IT SITS LESS THAN TEN
MINUTES WALK FROM A MAJOR
EMPLOYER THE HOSPITAL FIFTEEN
TO TWENTY MINUTES FROM KERRY
TOWN, FROM MAIN STREET AND FROM
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
NOW AS ONE OF THE CALLERS
MENTIONED, A CHANGE LIKE THIS
WOULD NORMALLY REQUIRE NO MORE
THAN A NEW SITE PLAN WHICH
WOULD NORMALLY NOT INVOLVE A
ZONING DECISION.
IT WOULD IN FACT NOT EVEN COME
TO COUNCIL AT ALL WOULD HAVE
RECEIVED FINAL APPROVAL AT
PLANNING COMMISSION COUNCIL IS
SEEING THIS ONLY BECAUSE A
CONDITION OF THE ORIGINAL
ZONING SPECIFY THAT THIS
PROJECT MUST EXECUTE THE ELEVEN
FORTY BROADWAY CONDO PROJECT
SITE PLAN BECAUSE THE TWO ARE
LINKED.
WE HAVE TO AMEND THE ZONING IN
ORDER FOR THE SITE PLAN TO
CHANGE NOW I REALLY SYMPATHIZE
WITH DESIRE FOR MIXED USE OR
MORE PS WITH OUR CARROT'S AS IT
WAS SO DELIGHTFULLY PUT WE CAN
AFFIRM IT.
WE CAN HAVE PLANS THAT STATE A
DESIRE FOR MIXED USE AND WE CAN
ZONE FOR IT.
THAT'S HOW YOU TRANSLATE PLANS
INTO ACTION AND WE'VE DONE ALL
THAT BUT FOR MIXED USE TO
MATERIALIZE FINANCIERS BEING
THE PEOPLE WHO FUNDED
DEVELOPERS NOT THE DEVELOPERS
THEMSELVES HAVE TO BE WILLING
TO INVEST IN IT AND MANY OTHER
CITIES GIVE THEM THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE A BETTER
RETURN ON THEIR DOLLAR THAN ANN
ARBOR DOES.
SO WE HAVE NO WAY OF REQUIRING
MIXED USE.
WE CAN WELCOME IT AND WE CAN WE
CAN MAKE IT POSSIBLE BUT WE
CAN'T REQUIRE IT.
FOLKS HAVE MENTIONED
ELECTRIFICATION.
I WISH EVERY PROJECT THAT CAME
BEFORE THE CITY WERE FULLY
ELECTRIC BUT AS A CITY WE HAVE
NO WAY OF REQUIRING THAT AND
EVEN IF WE DID IN THIS INSTANCE
FOSSIL GAS HEATING
INFRASTRUCTURE IS ALREADY IN
THE GROUND.
IT WAS INSTALLED WHEN THE FIRST
PHASE OF THIS PROJECT WAS
CONSTRUCTED BUT THAT DOES NOT
MEAN THAT THIS PROJECT IS NOT
SUSTAINABLE.
CONSIDERABLE CONTAMINATED
GROUNDWATER WAS REMEDIATED IN
WHEN THIS GOT GOING THE
DEVELOPER INSTALLED IV CHARGES
CHARGERS IN THE PARKING DECK
BEFORE THE CITY WAS REQUIRING
THEM AND WILLING TO INSTALL
ADDITIONAL ONES.
NOW THIS PHASE OF THE PROJECT
WILL HAVE ELECTRIC DRYERS AND
THE DEVELOPER HAS SAID HE IS
INVESTIGATING ELECTRIC STOVES
AND REALLY A GREAT BENEFIT.
THIS PROJECT IS THAT IT
PROVIDES ONE PROTECTED BIKE
SPACE PER UNIT WHICH IS WELL
BEYOND WHAT OUR CODE REQUIRES
AND THESE WILL BE LOCATED AT
THE GROUND LEVEL WITH EASY
EGRESS TO THE STREET COUNCIL
MEMBER.
OK, WHEN WE COME BACK FOR THE
SITE PLAN I'LL TELL YOU MORE
CALCIUM SONG I WAS REALLY MOVED
WHEN I HEARD FROM FOLKS WHO
REMEMBER THE RETAIL THAT WAS
THERE THE SITE BEFORE I MEAN I
SHARE THIS YOU MEMORIES
OF MANADO KOREAN GROCERY STORE
THERE I I CELEBRATED BY
CHILDREN'S DAY BIRTHDAY FIRST
YEAR BIRTHDAY WITH MUNDOO
BULGOGI.
THEY HAD FRESH STOCK WHICH IS
RICE CAKES.
THEY'RE VERY IT WAS VERY
DIFFICULT FIFTEEN TO TWENTY
YEARS TO GO TO FIND THAT KIND
OF GROCERY.
NOW WE HAVE SEVERAL MORE KOREAN
GROCERY STORES IN TOWN AND IT
REALLY RELIED ON SMALL FAMILY
BUSINESSES TO SUPPORT THIS.
SO YOU KNOW IN MY ENTHUSIASM IN
RESPONDING TO TO SOME FOLKS WHO
HAD EMAILED AND I CALLED UH UH
ARE COMING HERE TONIGHT I ALSO
TALKED ABOUT HOW WE HAD
APPROVED LIQUOR LICENSE NOT TOO
FAR FROM THE SITE TO JUST LAST
YEAR AND MY EAGERNESS IN SEEING
THE SITE BEING DEVELOPED BUT IN
IN TALKING A LITTLE BIT MORE
WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS, I THINK
THAT THE ANOTHER QUESTION CAME
UP WHICH IS FINANCING.
SO WHO ACTUALLY PAYS FOR THESE
RETAIL SPACES AND HOW DO WE
ACTUALLY OCCUPY THESE RETAIL
SPACES?
THERE ARE REASONS WHY WE SEE
NEW BUSINESSES COMING IN LIKE
TACO BELL, DUNKIN DONUTS, CHICK
FIL A COMING IN.
IT'S BECAUSE THEY'RE FINANCE TO
COME IN AND THEY HAVE THE THE
FUNDS TO DO THIS TO TALK ABOUT
RETAIL IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS AND
ENGAGE WITH DEVELOPERS ON THIS
AND IN ASKING FOR THE RETAIL
SPACES, THERE'S NO GUARANTEE
THAT THEY'LL BE OCCUPIED AND
THE THE FINANCIAL BURDEN IS ON
THE DEVELOPER THEMSELVES.
SO WHERE DO AND AS WELL AS
RENTERS SO HOW DO WE SUPPORT
YOU KNOW, WILL THIS BE AN
INCREASE IN RENT?
I MEAN IT'S HARD TO IT'S
DIFFICULT TO SAY IT'S LIKE A
CHICKEN BEFORE THE EGG BUT I
THINK IT'S REALLY LIKE THE
BANKS.
>> WHAT ARE THE BANKS WILLING
TO FINANCE WHEN IT COMES TO OUR
WISHES AND DREAMS AND WHAT WE
SEE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
AND IT'S ALSO A STRUGGLE THAT
WE SEE WITH OUR OWN PUBLIC
SCHOOLS.
AS YOU REMEMBER JENNIFER HALL
JUST A COUPLE OF MEETINGS AGO
SAID THAT WE'RE AT A POINT
WHERE EACH UNIT IS AT FOUR
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
COSTS AND THAT'S WHAT THE
ELEVEN DREAMS OF FINANCE OR
FINANCING.
RIGHT.
UM, WE DON'T EXIST OUT
OF MARKET CONDITIONS AND I'M
SORRY THAT WE CAN'T SOMEHOW
CAPTURE THE GOOD MEMORIES AND
EXPERIENCES OF AN ARBOR FROM
FIFTEEN TWENTY YEARS AGO WHERE
WE HAD SMALL BUSINESSES THAT
COULD THRIVE.
PERHAPS THIS IS A QUESTION
WHERE WE CAN TALK ABOUT MORE
ABOUT SMALL BUSINESS, IMPORTANT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO HEAR A
COUNCIL MEMBER PANEL SPEAK TO
THIS EARLIER AND HOW WE'RE
TRYING TO DO THAT WORK AS WELL
AS COUNCIL MEMBER IRES ON THAT
PARTICULAR COMMISSION.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO
DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING IT'S A
DIFFERENT BEAST AND I DO HOPE
WITH THE DEVELOPER HERE YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND THAT SENTIMENTAL
REASONS WHY PEOPLE WOULD LIKE
TO WELCOME MIXED USE IN RETAIL
BECAUSE IT'S NOT JUST
SUPPORTING WALKABLE A WALKABLE
COMMUNITY BUT A DIVERSE
COMMUNITY WITH DIVERSE NEEDS
AND THAT WOULD RATHER NOT SEE
LARGE BOX RETAIL IN IN OUR
DOWNTOWN CORRIDOR.
WE HAVE A LOT OF DONUT SHOPS
ACTUALLY IN OUR CITY SUPPORTED
BY FORMER REFUGEE COUNCIL
MEMBER.
WE CAN DO BETTER THINGS.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
>> YEAH, THANKS.
I TO REMEMBER THE DAYS
OF RETAIL IN THAT SPOT I I
LIVED ON PONTIAC TRAIL WHEN I
WAS A CHILD AND WE TOOK THE BUS
TO THE KROGER THERE WE TOOK THE
BUS TO DO OUR LAUNDRY AT THE
LAUNDROMAT THAT USED TO BE IN
THAT LOCATION THAT WAS A
PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT
COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I UNDERSTAND
WHY FOLKS ARE LAMENTING ITS
LOSS AND WANTING TO SEE MORE
OF THAT AND IN HOPING THAT
THERE IS SOME WAY TO INTEGRATE
IT INTO THIS.
>> I THINK SOME BRITISH SPOKE
TO WHY THAT'S IT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE FOR US TO BE
REQUIRING THAT IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT AT THIS POINT.
BUT I DO THINK THAT WE HAVE
OPPORTUNITIES.
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG SPOKE TO
THE FACT THAT WE NEED TO BE
THINKING ABOUT SMALL SMALL
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND WE
OBVIOUSLY ARE TO SOME DEGREE
BUT THERE IS WORK FOR US TO BE
DOING ON THAT.
I BROUGHT THAT UP DURING THE
ONE DISCUSSIONS AS WELL.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE ACTIVELY
NEED TO BE THINKING ABOUT IS AS
WE MOVE FORWARD.
BUT WE'RE ALSO EMBARKING ON THE
UPDATE TO OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT 70 PERCENT OF THE
LAND AND OUR RESIDENT LAND IS
ZONED SINGLE FAMILY ONLY.
>> AND SO RIGHT NOW IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS WE DON'T PERMIT
THE NEIGHBORHOOD GROCERY STORE
THAT USED TO EXIST IN PLACES
LIKE THE OLD WEST SIDE.
WE HAVE THE WE'VE HAD PLACES
LIKE THE KNIGHTS MARKET AND
JEFFERSON MARKET AND THOSE ARE
YOU KNOW, HISTORICALLY AREAS
WHERE WE DIDN'T HAVE IT'S NOT A
LARGE KROGER BUT IT'S THAT
SMALL LITTLE MARKET THAT
EXISTED WITHIN NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT THAT NEIGHBORS ARE ABLE TO
TURN TO.
>> WE'VE MADE THAT ILLEGAL.
WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
CHANGE THAT IN THE FUTURE.
AND I HOPE THAT FOLKS WHEN THEY
ENGAGE WITH THE PLANNING
PROCESS WILL BE ASKING FOR
MIXED USE IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE I THINK
THAT IS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR US
TO BRING BACK AFFORDABLE RETAIL
INTO OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
ACROSS OUR CITY.
>> SO IN TERMS OF THIS
PARTICULAR PROJECT, I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF THE ZONING
CHANGES.
>> I WILL SAY FOR THE RESIDENTS
THAT MOVE INTO THIS LOCATION
THEY ARE IN A 15 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THEY ARE AS MEMBER JUST
SPOKE TO A FIFTEEN MINUTE WALK
FROM CARRIE TOWN.
YOU KNOW, THEY THERE ARE
AMENITIES NEARBY.
DO WE WANT MORE?
YES, WE DO AND WE NEED TO NEED
TO BE WORKING ON THAT FOR THE
DISCUSSION
.
CASIMIR ECKMANN, THANKS BECAUSE
LIKE OTHERS HAVE SAID, I
COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND WHY
PEOPLE WOULD WANT A GROCERY
STORE OR SOMETHING SIMILAR
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT THE WAY I'M THINKING ABOUT
THE DECISION THAT'S IN FRONT
OF US IS WITH THIS CHANGE WE'RE
NOT TALKING ABOUT CHANGING FROM
THE ORIGINALLY GREEN TO RETAIL
AND RESIDENTIAL MIX TO A PURELY
RESIDENTIAL WE'RE NOT BEING
ASKED TO CHANGE THE MIX
OF AFFORDABLE UNITS.
WE'RE NOT BEING ASKED TO FORGO
SUSTAINABILITY ITEMS THAT THEY
PREVIOUSLY COMMITTED TO AND ARE
ASKING NOT TO NOW WE'RE BEING
ASKED TO CHANGE FROM EIGHTY SIX
CONDOS TO ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETY SIX APARTMENTS AND LESS
PARKING.
SO I JUST I DON'T REALLY SEE
THIS AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO TRY
TO GET ALL OF OUR HOPES AND
DREAMS AND START TAKING ON MORE
THINGS THAT WE WOULD LIKE
BECAUSE IT'S NOT EVEN CODIFIED
IN THE ZONING GROUP AND IT WAS
NEVER PART OF THE DISCUSSION
FOR THE ZONING WITH CONDITIONS
.
>> YOU KNOW AND I ALSO FEEL
LIKE SPEAKING TO COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND OTHER PEOPLE THAT
I'VE SPOKEN, I DON'T FEEL LIKE
I'M IN A POSITION TO SAY
WHETHER A GROCERY STORE COULD
SUCCEED HERE AND I DON'T WANT
TO SEE ANOTHER EMPTY FIRST
FLOOR RETAIL SPACE.
>> SO THAT'S A THANK YOU FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
>> I'M A I AM GOING TO BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THE REZONING
FOR MANY OF THE REASONS THAT
WERE IDENTIFIED BY BY FOLKS
HERE AT THE TABLE.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT WE HAVE
A HOUSING CRISIS IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND THAT HOUSING
PRICES ARE TOO HIGH, THEY'RE
TOO HIGH BECAUSE OF SIMPLY PUT
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
WE ARE NOT IN THE POSITION TO
DEPRESS DEMAND.
AND SO IF THE HOUSING CRISIS IF
THE AFFORDABILITY CRISIS IS
UNACCEPTABLE TO US, WE HAVE A
NUMBER OF ALTERNATIVES WE CAN
BUILD HOUSING IN THE PROCESS
OF DOING THAT WITH WITH GREAT
RIGOR.
>> WE CAN PERMIT HOUSING WHICH
WE'RE DOING THROUGH ZONINGS AND
WHEN WE ARE OFFERED THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR A REQUESTED
REZONING THAT THAT MEETS OUR
GOALS, THAT DOES EXPAND HOUSING
IN A WAY AND IN A PLACE WHERE
IT IS IT IS BENEFICIAL WE CAN
APPROVE IT.
>> THAT I THINK IS WHAT THE
CIRCUMSTANCE WE HAVE BEFORE US
AND I'M GLAD THAT IT WILL BE
MOVING FORWARD.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED BY ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE NINE NINE
MAIDENLY INSIDE PLAN AND FIRST
AGREEMENT TO ONE ONE FOUR ZERO
BROADWAY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU.
UM SO WE JUST VOTED TO REZONE
AND IN DOING SO HAVE WE JUST
PASSED UP AN OPPORTUNITY TO
NEGOTIATE WITH THE DEVELOPER.
YOU HEARD THAT A LOT IN THE
COMMENTS AND THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION IS NO BYLAW IN A
CONDITIONAL ZONING CONDITIONS
ARE OFFERED BY THE DEVELOPER
AND THE DEVELOPER LOOKS FOR
THINGS THAT THEY THINK ALIGN
WITH CITY PRIORITIES.
CONDITIONAL ZONING IS NOT AN
OPPORTUNITY TO IMPOSE
CONDITIONS AND EXACT
CONCESSIONS FROM A DEVELOPER
AND EVEN IF WE WERE INCLINED TO
DO THAT, DOING IT AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE WOULD BE UNSEEMLY
IF NOT WORSE.
SO I WANT TO SINCE WE ARE NOW I
KNOW IT FEELS LIKE WE'RE HAVING
THE SAME DISCUSSION AGAIN BUT I
WANT TO TALK ABOUT A COUPLE
OF FEATURES THIS I PLAN THAT WE
DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO MENTION
EARLIER.
UM, THE DEVELOPER FOR THIS
PROJECT ORIGINALLY AGREED TO
SET ASIDE A PERCENTAGE OF UNITS
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> THAT AGREEMENT RESULTED IN
FIFTEEN UNITS THAT WILL BE THAT
ARE BEING RENTED OUT AT MAX
SIXTY PERCENT AM I ACROSS THE
FIRST TWO BUILDINGS OF THE
PROJECT THE DEVELOPER HAS
VOLUNTARILY COMMITTED TO
EXTENDING THOSE SAME TERMS, DID
NOT HAVE TO DO THIS AT ALL TO
NINE NINETY ON MY MAIDEN LANE
THIS WILL INCREASE THE COUNT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS BY
APPROXIMATELY SIX UNITS AT MAX
SIXTY PERCENT ARMY AND AT THE
PACE THAT WE'RE MOVING
CONSTRUCTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ON OUR CITY OWN SITES AND WE
ARE MOVING.
IT'S JUST THAT THIS PACE IS
SLOW AT UNITS IS NOT A BAD
DEAL.
THE PROJECT IN TERMS OF PARKING
ALSO SATISFIES THE CITY'S
CURRENT PREFERENCE TO DEVOTE
MORE SPACE TO HOUSING PEOPLE
THAN TO STORING CARS.
>> THE DEVELOPER PROPOSES TO
ADD JUST FIFTEEN ADDITIONAL
SURFACE PARKING SPACES WHICH
RAISES THE TOTAL OF SPACES AT
THIS PROJECT TO OVERALL TO FIVE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NINE SPACES
THIRTY OUTSIDE SURFACE FIVE
FORTY NINE IN THE PARKING
STRUCTURE.
>> WHAT IS REALLY COOL ABOUT
THIS PROJECT IS IT WAS A SOCIAL
SCIENCE EXPERIMENT FOR OUR
LIFTING MANDATORY PARKING
MINIMUMS.
THE PROJECT WAS APPROVED UNDER
OUR OLD RULES WHICH REQUIRED
MINIMUMS.
THE DEVELOPER WOULD HAVE BEEN
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE ONE PARKING
SPACE PER DWELLING UNIT.
THE PROJECT RECEIVED A VARIANCE
IN 2017 TO PROVIDE POINT NINE
SPACES PER DWELLING UNIT THE
RENTAL HOUSING AT TWELVE
BROADWAY HAS BEEN IN OPERATION
FOR TWO YEARS AND DEMAND FOR
PARKING HAS BEEN POINT SIX
SPACES FOR DWELLING UNIT.
>> NOW I AM NOT SAYING THAT
THAT IS THE MAGIC NUMBER FOR
EVERYWHERE BUT I'M SAYING THAT
IN A SITE THAT IS LOCATED WHERE
THIS ONE IS CLOSE TO THE
HOSPITAL CLOSE TO KOREATOWN
CLOSE TO MAIN STREET, CLOSE TO
CENTRAL CAMPUS POINT SIX LOOKS
REALLY GOOD AND THERE IS NO
EVIDENCE OF SPILL OVER INTO THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER YAY FOR THAT
COUNCIL EMBRAER THANK YOU.
>> I I JUST WANT TO I THOUGHT
IT WAS INTERESTING THAT THE
WORD HUMANITARIAN WAS USED
EARLIER AND THAT'S NOT ONE THAT
WE OFTEN HEAR HERE IN CHAMBERS
AND I APPRECIATE THAT THE FOCUS
ON HUMANITARIANISM WHICH
OF COURSE IS THE PROMOTION
OF HUMAN WELFARE.
I THINK THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF WAYS TO LOOK AT THIS AND I
CERTAINLY DON'T DISCOUNT THAT
THE WAY THAT THAT THE RESIDENT
WAS USING IT.
I THINK ANOTHER WAY AND
CERTAINLY ONE WAY THAT I LOOK
AT THE PROMOTION OF HUMAN
WELFARE IN OUR CITY WHEN IT
COMES TO DENSITY IS ALLOWING
MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY, PEOPLE WHO ARE GOING
TO SCHOOL HERE, PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING HERE GIVING THEM A
PLACE TO LIVE.
WHEN I SEE BUILDINGS DO I
SOMETIMES LAMENT THE
ARCHITECTURE?
YEAH, BUT I SEE THEM IN TERMS
OF THE PEOPLE THAT THEY HOUSE
MUCH MORE SO THAN I SEE THE
STRUCTURE ITSELF AND I THINK IT
FURTHER HELPS OUR CURRENT
RESIDENTS WHEN WE ALLOW
INCREASED DENSITY BECAUSE FOLKS
ARE GOING TO END UP SOMEWHERE
AND IF THEY DON'T END UP IN NEW
HOUSING, PARTICULARLY PEOPLE
WHO ARE GOING TO THE UNIVERSITY
OR WHO ARE WORKING AT THE
HOSPITAL, THEY'RE GOING TO
THAT'S MORE RESIDENTIAL
EXISTING RESIDENTIAL HOUSING
UNITS WILL BE CONVERTED INTO
RENTALS AND SO BY DOING AS WE
DO RELIEVE THE PRESSURE ON OUR
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOODS SO
THAT'S KIND OF MY TAKE ON HOW
WE HOW I SEE PROMOTING HUMAN
WELFARE AND HUMANITY
HUMANITARIANISM IN PROMOTING
DENSITY IN OUR CITY.
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRAZIL.
>> I WANT TO SPEAK TO THE
LOCATION A LITTLE BIT MORE.
STEAM IS PRETTY CLOSE BY IN OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS DENHA MAJOR
INVESTMENT
IN UPDATING THAT TO
A KEY RATE SCHOOL, EXPANDING IT
FROM A K THROUGH SCHOOL AND
THAT IS A SCHOOL THAT HAS
ATTRACTED HAS REALLY ENLIVENED
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND BROUGHT
INVESTMENT BROUGHT BACK
FAMILIES WHO HAD LEFT THE
NUMBER OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR
PRIVATE AND CHARTER SCHOOLS.
MY SON FINISHED MIDDLE SCHOOL
THERE AND I FEEL MAYBE WHAT WE
CAN THINK ABOUT THIS THIS
DEVELOPMENT IS MAYBE PERHAPS
IT'S CLOSER TO WHAT WE SEE
VALHALLA WHICH IS ACROSS FROM
PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL AT 454
UNITS.
SO THIS IS A FRACTION OF WHAT
WE'VE SEE ACROSS TOWN CLOSE TO
PUBLIC SCHOOLS CLOSE TO
EMPLOYER.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF POTENTIAL TO COME TALKING
ABOUT RETAIL IS JUST JUST ONE
ONE PART OF OF WHAT WE EXPECT
IN OUR COMMUNITIES TO SEE IN
OUR COMMUNITIES.
RIGHT.
SO IN PERHAPS RETAIL WILL COME
LATER ON.
I FEEL BAD ABOUT MENTIONING
DONUTS.
PERHAPS THAT WAS UNSEEMLY
REFUGEES DONUTS ARE ACTUALLY
VERY DELICIOUS.
I'M SO SORRY ABOUT I'M NOT ON
PLANNING I AM NOT CLEARLY NOT
PLANNING COMMISSION BUT I DO I
DO FEEL SOME LEVEL
OF EXCITEMENT TO THINK THAT
WILL BE ADDRESSING THE HOUSING
CRISIS AND THEN THE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISCUSSED TELL ME WILL
HAVE 700 UNITS ACROSS ALL THREE
BUILDINGS.
SO I GUESS WE ARE BEATING
VALHALLA ACROSS TOWN AND
LOOKING AT DENSITY IN THIS AREA
CLOSE CLOSE TO UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL IN CAMPUS EMPLOYER.
SO I'D LIKE TO SEE IF WE VOTE
IN FAVOR OF THIS WORK TONIGHT,
INVITE BUSINESS OWNERS AND AND
POTENTIAL RETAIL DOWN THE ROAD.
BUT FIRST WE HAVE TO HOUSE
FOLKS THAT'S THAT'S THE HIGHER
PRIORITY HERE AND I THINK
FELLOW COUNCIL MEMBERS IN
EXPLAINING THE PLANNING PROCESS
TO ME A LITTLE BIT MORE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED C ONE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND THE ZONING ACT BEING A
PART OF SECTION FIVE TEND TO
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
ANN ARBOR ZONING OF ELEVEN CITY
INITIATED ANNEX PARCELS ON
NEWPORT ROAD, BIRD ROAD AND
VICTORIA CIRCLE FROM T WP
TOWNSHIP TO R1 D SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT MOVE BY
COUNCIL DISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C ONE THOUSAND BRITISH.
>> OK SO I JUST WANT TO NOTE
THAT UM IF YOU LOOK ON THE
AGENDA IT SAYS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION VOTED FIVE TWO WE
WERE ACTUALLY UNANIMOUS IN THIS
RECOMMENDATION OF REZONING
THESE 11 PARCELS TO OUR ONE D
SO THESE ARE THESE PARCELS COME
TO US THROUGH THE LONG PATH
THAT HAS BEEN ANNEXATION AND
THE ORIGINAL RECOMMENDATION FOR
THE PARCELS WAS R ONE A WHICH
IS WHAT THE CONTEXT IS BUT AND
I SHOULD SAY AND PLANNING
COMMISSION HAD AN EXTENSIVE
DISCUSSION OF WHY SHOULD WE
ZONE MORE THINGS ARE ONE DAY
WHEN WE WANT AS I JUST SAID AND
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT GREATER
DENSITY AND SO WE CONSIDERED
WHETHER TO ALIGN THE REZONING
OF THESE 11 ANNEXED PARCELS
MORE CLOSELY TO A2 ZERO GOALS
BY ASSIGNING A MULTIFAMILY
ZONING DESIGNATION AND WE CAME
TO THE CONCLUSION THAT YOU
DON'T WANT FIGHT OF FOUR ALARM
FIRE WITH A GARDEN HOSE AND SO
REZONING ELEVEN PARCELS ISN'T
REALLY A GOOD STRATEGY AND WE
ARE ABOUT TO HAVE A CAMP PLAN
AND WE CAN TALK SYSTEMATIC
ABOUT WHAT WE WANT TO DO WITH
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING.
BUT THERE WAS SOMETHING THAT WE
COULD DO AND THAT WAS CHANGE
FROM R ONE A WHICH HAS A
MINIMUM SIZE OF 20000 SQUARE
FEET TO OUR ONE D THE MINIMUM
LOT SIZE IS FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET AND IT'S FRONT AND
REAR SET BACKS ARE ROUGHLY HALF
ITS MINIMUM FRONT TO REAR
SETBACKS ARE ROUGHLY HALF THAT
OF ARWANI SO R1 D THE FRONT SET
BACK IS TWENTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
AND THE REAR IS A RATHER TWENTY
FIVE FEET IN THE REAR IS TWENTY
TWENTY FEET SO SO THAT'S WHY IT
COMES TO YOU AS R ONE D AND NOT
BIGGER.
IN ADDITION GOING TO OUR
FACEOFFS FOR EXAMPLE WOULD
REQUIRE DIFFERENT UTILITY
SPECIFICATIONS, FIRE HYDRANT
REQUIREMENTS AND OTHER THINGS.
SO THE INFRASTRUCTURE IN THAT
AREA IS NOT IN PLACE FOR THAT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE NEED
TO THINK SYSTEMATICALLY AND
HOLISTICALLY ABOUT AS WE THINK
THROUGH THE DETAILS OF THE
CURRENT PLAN OF HOW WE ACHIEVE
DENSIFICATION GIVEN THAT IT'S
GOING TO IN PLACES CLASH WITH
WHAT WE HAVE FOR UTILITY AND
THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE
UTILITIES SHOULD BE A LIMIT BUT
IT MEANS THAT'S A QUESTION THAT
WE NEED TO THINK SYSTEMATICALLY
ABOUT SO THAT IS WHY IT SHIFTED
FROM ARWANI TO OUR ONE D AND I
WILL OF COURSE VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THIS AS I DID ON PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I HOPE WE ALL
WILL TO FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IT'S APPROVED C TO
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
ONE TWO SEVEN TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION OF CHAPTER EIGHT
OF THE CITY CODE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN.
SECOND MY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION IS A CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER I BACK I CAN GO I JUST
BECAUSE I'M THE LIAISON THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ALTHOUGH IT LOOKS LIKE THEY
VOTED ON THIS IN SEPTEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO THOUGHTS
BEFORE MY TIME COMES FROM OVER
BRUSTEIN THANET BUT IT'S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD BUT GO AHEAD.
>> YEAH COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
MY APOLOGIES SORRY TO THE ON
THIS ONE.
SO TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ESSENTIALLY ONE OF THE SEATS
HAS BEEN A LITTLE CHALLENGING
TO HAVE CONSISTENTLY FILLED AND
THAT'S THE SEAT OF THE
TRANSPORTATION THE BASICALLY A
BIKE SHOP SEAT AND SO THIS IS
OPENING IT UP TO JUST HAVE IT
MORE BE A GENERAL SEAT AND YOU
KNOW, MAYBE A BIKE SHOP,
SOMEBODY REPRESENTING BIKE SHOP
WILL FEEL THAT DURING DIFFERENT
TIMES BUT AT OTHER TIMES IT CAN
JUST BE FILLED BY A RESIDENT IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND PROVIDE THEIR
INSIGHT FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED DC
ONE RESOLUTION TO END POINT
GERICKE METRO TO THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED
DC TWO
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING GARRETTS
SPACE AS A CIVIC NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION OPERATING IN ANN
ARBOR FOR THE PURPOSE
OF OBTAINING A CHARITABLE
GAMING LICENSE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
OFFER POSED IT IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE A PLEASURE OF A
CONCESSION TODAY?
NOT TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE TO THE
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR
QUENELLE SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE CLERK'S REPORT ON FAVOR
OPPOSE THE CLERK'S REPORT AS
PROVED ARE THEIR COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
THERE BEING NO PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW WE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DISH SECOND BY
COUNCILOR SONG DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED